Aam  A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in different cities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36 1/2, at Hamburg 38 1/4.
Aard-vark  An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhat resembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrows in the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with its long, slimy tongue.
Aard-wolf  A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa, resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.
Aaronic  Alt. of Aaronical
Aaronical  Pertaining to Aaron, the first high priest of the Jews.
Aam  A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in different cities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36 1/2, at Hamburg 38 1/4.
Aard-vark  An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhat resembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrows in the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with its long, slimy tongue.
Aard-wolf  A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa, resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.
Aaronic  Alt. of Aaronical
Aaronical  Pertaining to Aaron, the first high priest of the Jews.
Aaron's  A rod with one serpent twined around it, thus differing from the caduceus of Mercury, which has two.
Aaron's  A plant with a tall flowering stem; esp. the great mullein, or hag-taper, and the golden-rod.
Ab-  A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away , separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-(6).
Abaca  The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See Manila hemp under Manila.
Abacinate  To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes.
Abacination  The act of abacinating.
Abaciscus  One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an abaculus.
Abacist  One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.
Aback  Toward the back or rear; backward.
Aback  Behind; in the rear.
Aback  Backward against the mast; -- said of the sails when pressed by the wind.
Aback  An abacus.
Abactinal  Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal.
Abaction  Stealing cattle on a large scale.
Abactor  One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or droves.
Abaculi  of Abaculus
Abaculus  A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.
Abacuses  of Abacus
Abaci  of Abacus
Abacus  A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing, calculating, etc.
Abacus  A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens, etc. It is still employed in China.
Abacus  The uppermost member or division of the capital of a column, immediately under the architrave. See Column.
Abacus  A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work.
Abacus  A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or sideboard.
Abada  The rhinoceros.
Abaddon  The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as Apollyon and Asmodeus.
Abaddon  Hell; the bottomless pit.
Abaft  Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse.
Abaft  Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.
Abaisance  Obeisance.
Abaiser  Ivory black or animal charcoal.
Abaist  Abashed; confounded; discomfited.
Abalienate  To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.
Abalienate  To estrange; to withdraw.
Abalienate  To cause alienation of (mind).
Abalienation  The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement.
Abalone  A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear. Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging closely to the rocks.
Aband  To abandon.
Aband  To banish; to expel.
Abandoned  of Abandon
Abandoning  of Abandon
Abandon  To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject.
Abandon  To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to renounce utterly; to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to surrender.
Abandon  Reflexively: To give (one's self) up without attempt at self-control; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly; -- often in a bad sense.
Abandon  To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured against.
Abandon  Abandonment; relinquishment.
Abandon  A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.
Abandoned  Forsaken, deserted.
Abandoned  Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked, or sinning without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned villain.
Abandonedly  Unrestrainedly.
Abandonee  One to whom anything is legally abandoned.
Abandoner  One who abandons.
Abandonment  The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total desertion; relinquishment.
Abandonment  The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril insured against.
Abandonment  The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to mill site, etc.
Abandonment  The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.
Abandonment  Careless freedom or ease; abandon.
Abandum  Anything forfeited or confiscated.
Abanet  See Abnet.
Abanga  A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.
Abannation  Alt. of Abannition
Abannition  Banishment.
Abarticulation  Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of free motion in the joint; diarthrosis.
Abased  of Abase
Abasing  of Abase
Abase  To lower or depress; to throw or cast down; as, to abase the eye.
Abase  To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble; to degrade.
Abased  Lowered; humbled.
Abased  Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of the wings turned downward towards the point of the shield.
Abasedly  Abjectly; downcastly.
Abasement  The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state of being abased or humbled; humiliation.
Abaser  He who, or that which, abases.
Abashed  of Abash
Abashing  of Abash
Abash  To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.
Abashedly  In an abashed manner.
Abashment  The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.
Abassi  Alt. of Abassis
Abassis  A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.
Abatable  Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.
Abated  of Abate
Abating  of Abate
Abate  To beat down; to overthrow.
Abate  To bring down or reduce from a higher to a lower state, number, or degree; to lessen; to diminish; to contract; to moderate; to cut short; as, to abate a demand; to abate pride, zeal, hope.
Abate  To deduct; to omit; as, to abate something from a price.
Abate  To blunt.
Abate  To reduce in estimation; to deprive.
Abate  To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with; as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ.
Abate  To diminish; to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in proportion, upon a deficiency of assets.
Abate  To decrease, or become less in strength or violence; as, pain abates, a storm abates.
Abate  To be defeated, or come to naught; to fall through; to fail; as, a writ abates.
Abate  Abatement.
Abatement  The act of abating, or the state of being abated; a lessening, diminution, or reduction; removal or putting an end to; as, the abatement of a nuisance is the suppression thereof.
Abatement  The amount abated; that which is taken away by way of reduction; deduction; decrease; a rebate or discount allowed.
Abatement  A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.
Abatement  The entry of a stranger, without right, into a freehold after the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.
Abater  One who, or that which, abates.
Abatis  Alt. of Abattis
Abattis  A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy.
Abatised  Provided with an abatis.
Abator  One who abates a nuisance.
Abator  A person who, without right, enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.
Abattoirs  of Abattoir
Abattoir  A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.
Abature  Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing through them.
Abatvoix  The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.
Abawed  Astonished; abashed.
Abaxial  Alt. of Abaxile
Abaxile  Away from the axis or central line; eccentric.
Abay  Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay.
Abb  Among weavers, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for the abb.
Abba  Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops to the patriarch.
Abbacies  of Abbacy
Abbacy  The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.
Abbatial  Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.
Abbatical  Abbatial.
Abbe  The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.
Abbess  A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have over the monks. See Abbey.
Abbeys  of Abbey
Abbey  A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded from the world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic building or buildings.
Abbey  The church of a monastery.
Abbot  The superior or head of an abbey.
Abbot  One of a class of bishops whose sees were formerly abbeys.
Abbotship  The state or office of an abbot.
Abbreviated  of Abbreviate
Abbreviating  of Abbreviate
Abbreviate  To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce by contraction or omission, especially of words written or spoken.
Abbreviate  To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.
Abbreviate  Abbreviated; abridged; shortened.
Abbreviate  Having one part relatively shorter than another or than the ordinary type.
Abbreviate  An abridgment.
Abbreviated  Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.
Abbreviation  The act of shortening, or reducing.
Abbreviation  The result of abbreviating; an abridgment.
Abbreviation  The form to which a word or phrase is reduced by contraction and omission; a letter or letters, standing for a word or phrase of which they are a part; as, Gen. for Genesis; U.S.A. for United States of America.
Abbreviation  One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing it respectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers.
Abbreviator  One who abbreviates or shortens.
Abbreviator  One of a college of seventy-two officers of the papal court whose duty is to make a short minute of a decision on a petition, or reply of the pope to a letter, and afterwards expand the minute into official form.
Abbreviatory  Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.
Abbreviature  An abbreviation; an abbreviated state or form.
Abbreviature  An abridgment; a compendium or abstract.
Abb  See Abb.
Abdal  A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.
Abderian  Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.
Abderite  An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace.
Abdest  Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a Mohammedan rite.
Abdicable  Capable of being abdicated.
Abdicant  Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.
Abdicant  One who abdicates.
Abdicated  of Abdicate
Abdicating  of Abdicate
Abdicate  To surrender or relinquish, as sovereign power; to withdraw definitely from filling or exercising, as a high office, station, dignity; as, to abdicate the throne, the crown, the papacy.
Abdicate  To renounce; to relinquish; -- said of authority, a trust, duty, right, etc.
Abdicate  To reject; to cast off.
Abdicate  To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his child; to disown; to disinherit.
Abdicate  To relinquish or renounce a throne, or other high office or dignity.
Abdication  The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office, dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciation of sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power, authority.
Abdicative  Causing, or implying, abdication.
Abdicator  One who abdicates.
Abditive  Having the quality of hiding.
Abditory  A place for hiding or preserving articles of value.
Abdomen  The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and the pelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by the peritoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. In man, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and the commencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelvic cavity.
Abdomen  The posterior section of the body, behind the thorax, in insects, crustaceans, and other Arthropoda.
Abdominal  Of or pertaining to the abdomen; ventral; as, the abdominal regions, muscles, cavity.
Abdominal  Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as, abdominal fishes.
Abdominals  of Abdominal
Abdominales  of Abdominal
Abdominal  A fish of the group Abdominales.
Abdominales  A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, and many marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behind the pectorals.
Abdominalia  A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.
Abdominoscopy  Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease.
Abdominothoracic  Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.
Abdominous  Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.
Abduced  of Abduce
Abducing  of Abduce
Abduce  To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different part.
Abducted  of Abduct
Abducting  of Abduct
Abduct  To take away surreptitiously by force; to carry away (a human being) wrongfully and usually by violence; to kidnap.
Abduct  To draw away, as a limb or other part, from its ordinary position.
Abduction  The act of abducing or abducting; a drawing apart; a carrying away.
Abduction  The movement which separates a limb or other part from the axis, or middle line, of the body.
Abduction  The wrongful, and usually the forcible, carrying off of a human being; as, the abduction of a child, the abduction of an heiress.
Abduction  A syllogism or form of argument in which the major is evident, but the minor is only probable.
Abductor  One who abducts.
Abductor  A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the median line of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eye outward.
Abeam  On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.
Abear  To bear; to behave.
Abear  To put up with; to endure.
Abearance  Behavior.
Abearing  Behavior.
Abecedarian  One who is learning the alphabet; hence, a tyro.
Abecedarian  One engaged in teaching the alphabet.
Abecedarian  Alt. of Abecedary
Abecedary  Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet; alphabetic; hence, rudimentary.
Abecedary  A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything.
Abed  In bed, or on the bed.
Abed  To childbed (in the phrase "brought abed," that is, delivered of a child).
Abegge  Same as Aby.
Abele  The white poplar (Populus alba).
Abelian  Alt. of Abelonian
Abelite  Alt. of Abelonian
Abelonian  One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St. Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence, after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.
Abelmosk  An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus -- moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes called musk mallow.
Aber-de-vine  The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green and yellow finch, related to the goldfinch.
Aberr  To wander; to stray.
Aberrance  Alt. of Aberrancy
Aberrancy  State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way; deviation from truth, rectitude, etc.
Aberrant  Wandering; straying from the right way.
Aberrant  Deviating from the ordinary or natural type; exceptional; abnormal.
Aberrate  To go astray; to diverge.
Aberration  The act of wandering; deviation, especially from truth or moral rectitude, from the natural state, or from a type.
Aberration  A partial alienation of reason.
Aberration  A small periodical change of position in the stars and other heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of light and the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when the observer's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and daily or diurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting when greatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''. Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and the motion of the planet relative to the earth.
Aberration  The convergence to different foci, by a lens or mirror, of rays of light emanating from one and the same point, or the deviation of such rays from a single focus; called spherical aberration, when due to the spherical form of the lens or mirror, such form giving different foci for central and marginal rays; and chromatic aberration, when due to different refrangibilities of the colored rays of the spectrum, those of each color having a distinct focus.
Aberration  The passage of blood or other fluid into parts not appropriate for it.
Aberration  The producing of an unintended effect by the glancing of an instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.
Aberrational  Characterized by aberration.
Aberuncate  To weed out.
Aberuncator  A weeding machine.
Abetted  of Abet
Abetting  of Abet
Abet  To instigate or encourage by aid or countenance; -- used in a bad sense of persons and acts; as, to abet an ill-doer; to abet one in his wicked courses; to abet vice; to abet an insurrection.
Abet  To support, uphold, or aid; to maintain; -- in a good sense.
Abet  To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commission of an offense.
Abet  Act of abetting; aid.
Abetment  The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc.
Abettal  Abetment.
Abetter  Alt. of Abettor
Abettor  One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.
Abevacuation  A partial evacuation.
Abeyance  Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.
Abeyance  Suspension; temporary suppression.
Abeyancy  Abeyance.
Abeyant  Being in a state of abeyance.
Abhal  The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.
Abhominable  Abominable.
Abhominal  Inhuman.
Abhorred  of Abhor
Abhorring  of Abhor
Abhor  To shrink back with shuddering from; to regard with horror or detestation; to feel excessive repugnance toward; to detest to extremity; to loathe.
Abhor  To fill with horror or disgust.
Abhor  To protest against; to reject solemnly.
Abhor  To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be contrary or averse; -- with
Abhorrence  Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike.
Abhorrency  Abhorrence.
Abhorrent  Abhorring; detesting; having or showing abhorrence; loathing; hence, strongly opposed to; as, abhorrent thoughts.
Abhorrent  Contrary or repugnant; discordant; inconsistent; -- followed by to.
Abhorrent  Detestable.
Abhorrently  With abhorrence.
Abhorrer  One who abhors.
Abhorrible  Detestable.
Abhorring  Detestation.
Abhorring  Object of abhorrence.
Abib  The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity this month was called Nisan.
Abidance  The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with).
Abode  of Abide
Abid  of Abide
Abiding  of Abide
Abide  To wait; to pause; to delay.
Abide  To stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to dwell; to sojourn; -- with with before a person, and commonly with at or in before a place.
Abide  To remain stable or fixed in some state or condition; to continue; to remain.
Abide  To wait for; to be prepared for; to await; to watch for; as, I abide my time.
Abide  To endure; to sustain; to submit to.
Abide  To bear patiently; to tolerate; to put up with.
Abide  To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for.
Abider  One who abides, or continues.
Abider  One who dwells; a resident.
Abiding  Continuing; lasting.
Abidingly  Permanently.
Abies  A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred to this genus.
Abietene  A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nut pine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.
Abietic  Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abietic acid, called also sylvic acid.
Abietin  Alt. of Abietine
Abietine  A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada balsam. It is without taste or smell, is insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol (especially at the boiling point), in strong acetic acid, and in ether.
Abietinic  Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.
Abietite  A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of the common silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata).
Abigail  A lady's waiting-maid.
Abiliment  Habiliment.
Abilities  of Ability
Ability  The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity; skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill, resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.
Abime  Alt. of Abyme
Abyme  A abyss.
Abiogenesis  The supposed origination of living organisms from lifeless matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed to biogenesis.
Abiogenetic  Of or pertaining to abiogenesis.
Abiogenist  One who believes that life can be produced independently of antecedent.
Abiogenous  Produced by spontaneous generation.
Abiogeny  Same as Abiogenesis.
Abiological  Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.
Abirritant  A medicine that diminishes irritation.
Abirritate  To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.
Abirritation  A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation; debility; want of strength; asthenia.
Abirritative  Characterized by abirritation or debility.
Abit  3d sing. pres. of Abide.
Abject  Cast down; low-lying.
Abject  Sunk to a law condition; down in spirit or hope; degraded; servile; groveling; despicable; as, abject posture, fortune, thoughts.
Abject  To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; to debase.
Abject  A person in the lowest and most despicable condition; a castaway.
Abjectedness  A very abject or low condition; abjectness.
Abjection  The act of bringing down or humbling.
Abjection  The state of being rejected or cast out.
Abjection  A low or downcast state; meanness of spirit; abasement; degradation.
Abjectly  Meanly; servilely.
Abjectness  The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.
Abjudge  To take away by judicial decision.
Abjudicate  To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge.
Abjudication  Rejection by judicial sentence.
Abjugate  To unyoke.
Abjunctive  Exceptional.
Abjuration  The act of abjuring or forswearing; a renunciation upon oath; as, abjuration of the realm, a sworn banishment, an oath taken to leave the country and never to return.
Abjuration  A solemn recantation or renunciation; as, an abjuration of heresy.
Abjuratory  Containing abjuration.
Abjured  of Abjure
Abjuring  of Abjure
Abjure  To renounce upon oath; to forswear; to disavow; as, to abjure allegiance to a prince. To abjure the realm, is to swear to abandon it forever.
Abjure  To renounce or reject with solemnity; to recant; to abandon forever; to reject; repudiate; as, to abjure errors.
Abjure  To renounce on oath.
Abjurement  Renunciation.
Abjurer  One who abjures.
Ablactate  To wean.
Ablactation  The weaning of a child from the breast, or of young beasts from their dam.
Ablactation  The process of grafting now called inarching, or grafting by approach.
Ablaqueate  To lay bare, as the roots of a tree.
Ablaqueation  The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to expose them to the air and water.
Ablastemic  Non-germinal.
Ablation  A carrying or taking away; removal.
Ablation  Extirpation.
Ablation  Wearing away; superficial waste.
Ablatitious  Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force.
Ablative  Taking away or removing.
Ablative  Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some other languages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal, separation, or taking away.
Ablative  The ablative case.
Ablaut  The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation; as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung.
Ablaze  On fire; in a blaze, gleaming.
Ablaze  In a state of glowing excitement or ardent desire.
Able  Fit; adapted; suitable.
Able  Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or resources of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of qualifications rendering competent for some end; competent; qualified; capable; as, an able workman, soldier, seaman, a man able to work; a mind able to reason; a person able to be generous; able to endure pain; able to play on a piano.
Able  Specially: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong mental powers; showing ability or skill; talented; clever; powerful; as, the ablest man in the senate; an able speech.
Able  Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able to inherit or devise property.
Able  To make able; to enable; to strengthen.
Able  To vouch for.
Able-bodied  Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust.
Ablegate  To send abroad.
Ablegate  A representative of the pope charged with important commissions in foreign countries, one of his duties being to bring to a newly named cardinal his insignia of office.
Ablegation  The act of sending abroad.
Able-minded  Having much intellectual power.
Ableness  Ability of body or mind; force; vigor.
Ablepsy  Blindness.
Abler  comp. of Able.
Abler  superl. of Able.
Ablet  Alt. of Ablen
Ablen  A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak.
Abligate  To tie up so as to hinder from.
Abligurition  Prodigal expense for food.
Ablins  Perhaps.
Abloom  In or into bloom; in a blooming state.
Ablude  To be unlike; to differ.
Abluent  Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent.
Abluent  A detergent.
Ablush  Blushing; ruddy.
Ablution  The act of washing or cleansing; specifically, the washing of the body, or some part of it, as a religious rite.
Ablution  The water used in cleansing.
Ablution  A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash the priest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then, as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunk by the priest.
Ablutionary  Pertaining to ablution.
Abluvion  That which is washed off.
Ably  In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned, said.
Abnegated  of Abnegate
Abnegating  of Abnegate
Abnegate  To deny and reject; to abjure.
Abnegation  a denial; a renunciation.
Abnegative  Denying; renouncing; negative.
Abnegator  One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything.
Abnet  The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.
Abnodate  To clear (tress) from knots.
Abnodation  The act of cutting away the knots of trees.
Abnormal  Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type; anomalous; irregular.
Abnormalities  of Abnormality
Abnormality  The state or quality of being abnormal; variation; irregularity.
Abnormality  Something abnormal.
Abnormally  In an abnormal manner; irregularly.
Abnormities  of Abnormity
Abnormity  Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity.
Abnormous  Abnormal; irregular.
Aboard  On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within a railway car.
Aboard  Alongside; as, close aboard.
Aboard  On board of; as, to go aboard a ship.
Aboard  Across; athwart.
Abodance  An omen; a portending.
Abode  pret. of Abide.
Abode  Act of waiting; delay.
Abode  Stay or continuance in a place; sojourn.
Abode  Place of continuance, or where one dwells; abiding place; residence; a dwelling; a habitation.
Abode  An omen.
Abode  To bode; to foreshow.
Abode  To be ominous.
Abodement  A foreboding; an omen.
Aboding  A foreboding.
Abolished  of Abolish
Abolishing  of Abolish
Abolish  To do away with wholly; to annul; to make void; -- said of laws, customs, institutions, governments, etc.; as, to abolish slavery, to abolish folly.
Abolish  To put an end to, or destroy, as a physical objects; to wipe out.
Abolishable  Capable of being abolished.
Abolisher  One who abolishes.
Abolishment  The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction.
Abolition  The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; an annulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition of slavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees, ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.
Abolitionism  The principles or measures of abolitionists.
Abolitionist  A person who favors the abolition of any institution, especially negro slavery.
Abolitionize  To imbue with the principles of abolitionism.
Aboma  A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).
Abomasum  Alt. of Abomasus
Abomasus  The fourth or digestive stomach of a ruminant, which leads from the third stomach omasum. See Ruminantia.
Abominable  Worthy of, or causing, abhorrence, as a thing of evil omen; odious in the utmost degree; very hateful; detestable; loathsome; execrable.
Abominable  Excessive; large; -- used as an intensive.
Abominableness  The quality or state of being abominable; odiousness.
Abominably  In an abominable manner; very odiously; detestably.
Abominated  of Abominate
Abominating  of Abominate
Abominate  To turn from as ill-omened; to hate in the highest degree, as if with religious dread; loathe; as, to abominate all impiety.
Abomination  The feeling of extreme disgust and hatred; abhorrence; detestation; loathing; as, he holds tobacco in abomination.
Abomination  That which is abominable; anything hateful, wicked, or shamefully vile; an object or state that excites disgust and hatred; a hateful or shameful vice; pollution.
Abomination  A cause of pollution or wickedness.
Aboon  and adv. Above.
Aboral  Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth.
Abord  Manner of approaching or accosting; address.
Abord  To approach; to accost.
Aboriginal  First; original; indigenous; primitive; native; as, the aboriginal tribes of America.
Aboriginal  Of or pertaining to aborigines; as, a Hindoo of aboriginal blood.
Aboriginal  An original inhabitant of any land; one of the aborigines.
Aboriginal  An animal or a plant native to the region.
Aboriginality  The quality of being aboriginal.
Aboriginally  Primarily.
Aborigines  The earliest known inhabitants of a country; native races.
Aborigines  The original fauna and flora of a geographical area
Aborsement  Abortment; abortion.
Aborsive  Abortive.
Abort  To miscarry; to bring forth young prematurely.
Abort  To become checked in normal development, so as either to remain rudimentary or shrink away wholly; to become sterile.
Abort  An untimely birth.
Abort  An aborted offspring.
Aborted  Brought forth prematurely.
Aborted  Rendered abortive or sterile; undeveloped; checked in normal development at a very early stage; as, spines are aborted branches.
Aborticide  The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide.
Abortifacient  Producing miscarriage.
Abortifacient  A drug or an agent that causes premature delivery.
Abortion  The act of giving premature birth; particularly, the expulsion of the human fetus prematurely, or before it is capable of sustaining life; miscarriage.
Abortion  The immature product of an untimely birth.
Abortion  Arrest of development of any organ, so that it remains an imperfect formation or is absorbed.
Abortion  Any fruit or produce that does not come to maturity, or anything which in its progress, before it is matured or perfect; a complete failure; as, his attempt proved an abortion.
Abortional  Pertaining to abortion; miscarrying; abortive.
Abortionist  One who procures abortion or miscarriage.
Abortive  Produced by abortion; born prematurely; as, an abortive child.
Abortive  Made from the skin of a still-born animal; as, abortive vellum.
Abortive  Rendering fruitless or ineffectual.
Abortive  Coming to naught; failing in its effect; miscarrying; fruitless; unsuccessful; as, an abortive attempt.
Abortive  Imperfectly formed or developed; rudimentary; sterile; as, an abortive organ, stamen, ovule, etc.
Abortive  Causing abortion; as, abortive medicines.
Abortive  Cutting short; as, abortive treatment of typhoid fever.
Abortive  That which is born or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.
Abortive  A fruitless effort or issue.
Abortive  A medicine to which is attributed the property of causing abortion.
Abortively  In an abortive or untimely manner; immaturely; fruitlessly.
Abortiveness  The quality of being abortive.
Abortment  Abortion.
Abought  imp. & p. p. of Aby.
Abounded  of Abound
Abounding  of Abound
Abound  To be in great plenty; to be very prevalent; to be plentiful.
Abound  To be copiously supplied; -- followed by in or with.
About  Around; all round; on every side of.
About  In the immediate neighborhood of; in contiguity or proximity to; near, as to place; by or on (one's person).
About  Over or upon different parts of; through or over in various directions; here and there in; to and fro in; throughout.
About  Near; not far from; -- determining approximately time, size, quantity.
About  In concern with; engaged in; intent on.
About  On the point or verge of; going; in act of.
About  Concerning; with regard to; on account of; touching.
About  On all sides; around.
About  In circuit; circularly; by a circuitous way; around the outside; as, a mile about, and a third of a mile across.
About  Here and there; around; in one place and another.
About  Nearly; approximately; with close correspondence, in quality, manner, degree, etc.; as, about as cold; about as high; -- also of quantity, number, time.
About  To a reserved position; half round; in the opposite direction; on the opposite tack; as, to face about; to turn one's self about.
About-sledge  The largest hammer used by smiths.
Above  In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper surface; over; -- opposed to below or beneath.
Above  Figuratively, higher than; superior to in any respect; surpassing; beyond; higher in measure or degree than; as, things above comprehension; above mean actions; conduct above reproach.
Above  Surpassing in number or quantity; more than; as, above a hundred. (Passing into the adverbial sense. See Above, adv., 4.)
Above  In a higher place; overhead; into or from heaven; as, the clouds above.
Above  Earlier in order; higher in the same page; hence, in a foregoing page.
Above  Higher in rank or power; as, he appealed to the court above.
Above  More than; as, above five hundred were present.
Aboveboard  Above the board or table. Hence: in open sight; without trick, concealment, or deception.
Above-cited  Cited before, in the preceding part of a book or writing.
Abovedeck  On deck; and hence, like aboveboard, without artifice.
Above-mentioned  Alt. of Above-named
Above-named  Mentioned or named before; aforesaid.
Abovesaid  Mentioned or recited before.
Abox  Braced aback.
Abracadabra  A mystical word or collocation of letters written as in the figure. Worn on an amulet it was supposed to ward off fever. At present the word is used chiefly in jest to denote something without meaning; jargon.
Abradant  A material used for grinding, as emery, sand, powdered glass, etc.
Abraded  of Abrade
Abrading  of Abrade
Abrade  To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, to abrade rocks.
Abrade  Same as Abraid.
Abrahamic  Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrachamic covenant.
Abrahamitic  Alt. of ical
Abraham-man  Alt. of Abram-man
Abram-man  One of a set of vagabonds who formerly roamed through England, feigning lunacy for the sake of obtaining alms.
Abraid  To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out.
Abranchial  Abranchiate.
Abranchiata  A group of annelids, so called because the species composing it have no special organs of respiration.
Abranchiate  Without gills.
Abrase  Rubbed smooth.
Abrasion  The act of abrading, wearing, or rubbing off; the wearing away by friction; as, the abrasion of coins.
Abrasion  The substance rubbed off.
Abrasion  A superficial excoriation, with loss of substance under the form of small shreds.
Abrasive  Producing abrasion.
Abraum  Alt. of Abraum salts
Abraum  A red ocher used to darken mahogany and for making chloride of potassium.
Abraxas  A mystical word used as a charm and engraved on gems among the ancients; also, a gem stone thus engraved.
Abray  See Abraid.
Abreast  Side by side, with breasts in a line; as, "Two men could hardly walk abreast."
Abreast  Side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with the vessel's beam; -- with of.
Abreast  Up to a certain level or line; equally advanced; as, to keep abreast of [or with] the present state of science.
Abreast  At the same time; simultaneously.
Abregge  See Abridge.
Abrenounce  To renounce.
Abrenunciation  Absolute renunciation or repudiation.
Abreption  A snatching away.
Abreuvoir  The joint or interstice between stones, to be filled with mortar.
Abricock  See Apricot.
Abridged  of Abridge
Abridging  of Abridge
Abridge  To make shorter; to shorten in duration; to lessen; to diminish; to curtail; as, to abridge labor; to abridge power or rights.
Abridge  To shorten or contract by using fewer words, yet retaining the sense; to epitomize; to condense; as, to abridge a history or dictionary.
Abridge  To deprive; to cut off; -- followed by of, and formerly by from; as, to abridge one of his rights.
Abridger  One who abridges.
Abridgment  The act of abridging, or the state of being abridged; diminution; lessening; reduction or deprivation; as, an abridgment of pleasures or of expenses.
Abridgment  An epitome or compend, as of a book; a shortened or abridged form; an abbreviation.
Abridgment  That which abridges or cuts short; hence, an entertainment that makes the time pass quickly.
Abroach  To set abroach; to let out, as liquor; to broach; to tap.
Abroach  Broached; in a condition for letting out or yielding liquor, as a cask which is tapped.
Abroach  Hence: In a state to be diffused or propagated; afoot; astir.
Abroad  At large; widely; broadly; over a wide space; as, a tree spreads its branches abroad.
Abroad  Without a certain confine; outside the house; away from one's abode; as, to walk abroad.
Abroad  Beyond the bounds of a country; in foreign countries; as, we have broils at home and enemies abroad.
Abroad  Before the public at large; throughout society or the world; here and there; widely.
Abrogable  Capable of being abrogated.
Abrogate  Abrogated; abolished.
Abrogated  of Abrogate
Abrogating  of Abrogate
Abrogate  To annul by an authoritative act; to abolish by the authority of the maker or his successor; to repeal; -- applied to the repeal of laws, decrees, ordinances, the abolition of customs, etc.
Abrogate  To put an end to; to do away with.
Abrogation  The act of abrogating; repeal by authority.
Abrogative  Tending or designed to abrogate; as, an abrogative law.
Abrogator  One who repeals by authority.
Abrood  In the act of brooding.
Abrook  To brook; to endure.
Abrupt  Broken off; very steep, or craggy, as rocks, precipices, banks; precipitous; steep; as, abrupt places.
Abrupt  Without notice to prepare the mind for the event; sudden; hasty; unceremonious.
Abrupt  Having sudden transitions from one subject to another; unconnected.
Abrupt  Suddenly terminating, as if cut off.
Abrupt  An abrupt place.
Abrupt  To tear off or asunder.
Abruption  A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies.
Abruptly  In an abrupt manner; without giving notice, or without the usual forms; suddenly.
Abruptly  Precipitously.
Abruptness  The state of being abrupt or broken; craggedness; ruggedness; steepness.
Abruptness  Suddenness; unceremonious haste or vehemence; as, abruptness of style or manner.
Abscesses  of Abscess
Abscess  A collection of pus or purulent matter in any tissue or organ of the body, the result of a morbid process.
Abscession  A separating; removal; also, an abscess.
Abscind  To cut off.
Abscision  See Abscission.
Abscisses  of Absciss
Absciss  See Abscissa.
Abscissas  of Abscissa
Abscissae  of Abscissa
Abscissa  One of the elements of reference by which a point, as of a curve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coordinate axes.
Abscission  The act or process of cutting off.
Abscission  The state of being cut off.
Abscission  A figure of speech employed when a speaker having begun to say a thing stops abruptly: thus, "He is a man of so much honor and candor, and of such generosity -- but I need say no more."
Absconded  of Abscond
Absconding  of Abscond
Abscond  To hide, withdraw, or be concealed.
Abscond  To depart clandestinely; to steal off and secrete one's self; -- used especially of persons who withdraw to avoid a legal process; as, an absconding debtor.
Abscond  To hide; to conceal.
Abscondence  Fugitive concealment; secret retirement; hiding.
Absconder  One who absconds.
Absence  A state of being absent or withdrawn from a place or from companionship; -- opposed to presence.
Absence  Want; destitution; withdrawal.
Absence  Inattention to things present; abstraction (of mind); as, absence of mind.
Absent  Being away from a place; withdrawn from a place; not present.
Absent  Not existing; lacking; as, the part was rudimental or absent.
Absent  Inattentive to what is passing; absent-minded; preoccupied; as, an absent air.
Absented  of Absent
Absenting  of Absent
Absent  To take or withdraw (one's self) to such a distance as to prevent intercourse; -- used with the reflexive pronoun.
Absent  To withhold from being present.
Absentaneous  Pertaining to absence.
Absentation  The act of absenting one's self.
Absentee  One who absents himself from his country, office, post, or duty; especially, a landholder who lives in another country or district than that where his estate is situated; as, an Irish absentee.
Absenteeism  The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice of absenting one's self from the country or district where one's estate is situated.
Absenter  One who absents one's self.
Absently  In an absent or abstracted manner.
Absentment  The state of being absent; withdrawal.
Absent-minded  Absent in mind; abstracted; preoccupied.
Absentness  The quality of being absent-minded.
Absey-book  An A-B-C book; a primer.
Absinthate  A combination of absinthic acid with a base or positive radical.
Absinth  Alt. of Absinthe
Absinthe  The plant absinthium or common wormwood.
Absinthe  A strong spirituous liqueur made from wormwood and brandy or alcohol.
Absinthial  Of or pertaining to wormwood; absinthian.
Absinthian  Of the nature of wormwood.
Absinthiate  To impregnate with wormwood.
Absinthiated  Impregnated with wormwood; as, absinthiated wine.
Absinthic  Relating to the common wormwood or to an acid obtained from it.
Absinthin  The bitter principle of wormwood (Artemisia absinthium).
Absinthism  The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use of absinth.
Absinthium  The common wormwood (Artemisia absinthium), an intensely bitter plant, used as a tonic and for making the oil of wormwood.
Absis  See Apsis.
Absist  To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist.
Absistence  A standing aloof.
Absolute  Loosed from any limitation or condition; uncontrolled; unrestricted; unconditional; as, absolute authority, monarchy, sovereignty, an absolute promise or command; absolute power; an absolute monarch.
Absolute  Complete in itself; perfect; consummate; faultless; as, absolute perfection; absolute beauty.
Absolute  Viewed apart from modifying influences or without comparison with other objects; actual; real; -- opposed to relative and comparative; as, absolute motion; absolute time or space.
Absolute  Loosed from, or unconnected by, dependence on any other being; self-existent; self-sufficing.
Absolute  Capable of being thought or conceived by itself alone; unconditioned; non-relative.
Absolute  Positive; clear; certain; not doubtful.
Absolute  Authoritative; peremptory.
Absolute  Pure; unmixed; as, absolute alcohol.
Absolute  Not immediately dependent on the other parts of the sentence in government; as, the case absolute. See Ablative absolute, under Ablative.
Absolute  In a plane, the two imaginary circular points at infinity; in space of three dimensions, the imaginary circle at infinity.
Absolutely  In an absolute, independent, or unconditional manner; wholly; positively.
Absoluteness  The quality of being absolute; independence of everything extraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality; positiveness.
Absolution  An absolving, or setting free from guilt, sin, or penalty; forgiveness of an offense.
Absolution  An acquittal, or sentence of a judge declaring and accused person innocent.
Absolution  The exercise of priestly jurisdiction in the sacrament of penance, by which Catholics believe the sins of the truly penitent are forgiven.
Absolution  An absolving from ecclesiastical penalties, -- for example, excommunication.
Absolution  The form of words by which a penitent is absolved.
Absolution  Delivery, in speech.
Absolutism  The state of being absolute; the system or doctrine of the absolute; the principles or practice of absolute or arbitrary government; despotism.
Absolutism  Doctrine of absolute decrees.
Absolutist  One who is in favor of an absolute or autocratic government.
Absolutist  One who believes that it is possible to realize a cognition or concept of the absolute.
Absolutist  Of or pertaining to absolutism; arbitrary; despotic; as, absolutist principles.
Absolutistic  Pertaining to absolutism; absolutist.
Absolutory  Serving to absolve; absolving.
Absolvable  That may be absolved.
Absolvatory  Conferring absolution; absolutory.
Absolved  of Absolve
Absolving  of Absolve
Absolve  To set free, or release, as from some obligation, debt, or responsibility, or from the consequences of guilt or such ties as it would be sin or guilt to violate; to pronounce free; as, to absolve a subject from his allegiance; to absolve an offender, which amounts to an acquittal and remission of his punishment.
Absolve  To free from a penalty; to pardon; to remit (a sin); -- said of the sin or guilt.
Absolve  To finish; to accomplish.
Absolve  To resolve or explain.
Absolvent  Absolving.
Absolvent  An absolver.
Absolver  One who absolves.
Absonant  Discordant; contrary; -- opposed to consonant.
Absonous  Discordant; inharmonious; incongruous.
Absorbed  of Absorb
Absorbing  of Absorb
Absorb  To swallow up; to engulf; to overwhelm; to cause to disappear as if by swallowing up; to use up; to include.
Absorb  To suck up; to drink in; to imbibe; as a sponge or as the lacteals of the body.
Absorb  To engross or engage wholly; to occupy fully; as, absorbed in study or the pursuit of wealth.
Absorb  To take up by cohesive, chemical, or any molecular action, as when charcoal absorbs gases. So heat, light, and electricity are absorbed or taken up in the substances into which they pass.
Absorbability  The state or quality of being absorbable.
Absorbable  Capable of being absorbed or swallowed up.
Absorbedly  In a manner as if wholly engrossed or engaged.
Absorbency  Absorptiveness.
Absorbent  Absorbing; swallowing; absorptive.
Absorbent  Anything which absorbs.
Absorbent  Any substance which absorbs and neutralizes acid fluid in the stomach and bowels, as magnesia, chalk, etc.; also a substance e. g., iodine) which acts on the absorbent vessels so as to reduce enlarged and indurated parts.
Absorbent  The vessels by which the processes of absorption are carried on, as the lymphatics in animals, the extremities of the roots in plants.
Absorber  One who, or that which, absorbs.
Absorbing  Swallowing, engrossing; as, an absorbing pursuit.
Absorbition  Absorption.
Absorpt  Absorbed.
Absorption  The act or process of absorbing or sucking in anything, or of being absorbed and made to disappear; as, the absorption of bodies in a whirlpool, the absorption of a smaller tribe into a larger.
Absorption  An imbibing or reception by molecular or chemical action; as, the absorption of light, heat, electricity, etc.
Absorption  In living organisms, the process by which the materials of growth and nutrition are absorbed and conveyed to the tissues and organs.
Absorption  Entire engrossment or occupation of the mind; as, absorption in some employment.
Absorptive  Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe.
Absorptiveness  The quality of being absorptive; absorptive power.
Absorptivity  Absorptiveness.
Absquatulate  To take one's self off; to decamp.
Absque  The technical words of denial used in traversing what has been alleged, and is repeated.
Abstained  of Abstain
Abstaining  of Abstain
Abstain  To hold one's self aloof; to forbear or refrain voluntarily, and especially from an indulgence of the passions or appetites; -- with from.
Abstain  To hinder; to withhold.
Abstainer  One who abstains; esp., one who abstains from the use of intoxicating liquors.
Abstemious  Abstaining from wine.
Abstemious  Sparing in diet; refraining from a free use of food and strong drinks; temperate; abstinent; sparing in the indulgence of the appetite or passions.
Abstemious  Sparingly used; used with temperance or moderation; as, an abstemious diet.
Abstemious  Marked by, or spent in, abstinence; as, an abstemious life.
Abstemious  Promotive of abstemiousness.
Abstemiousness  The quality of being abstemious, temperate, or sparing in the use of food and strong drinks. It expresses a greater degree of abstinence than temperance.
Abstention  The act of abstaining; a holding aloof.
Abstentious  Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining.
Absterge  To make clean by wiping; to wipe away; to cleanse; hence, to purge.
Abstergent  Serving to cleanse, detergent.
Abstergent  A substance used in cleansing; a detergent; as, soap is an abstergent.
Absterse  To absterge; to cleanse; to purge away.
Abstersion  Act of wiping clean; a cleansing; a purging.
Abstersive  Cleansing; purging.
Abstersive  Something cleansing.
Abstersiveness  The quality of being abstersive.
Abstinence  The act or practice of abstaining; voluntary forbearance of any action, especially the refraining from an indulgence of appetite, or from customary gratifications of animal or sensual propensities. Specifically, the practice of abstaining from intoxicating beverages, -- called also total abstinence.
Abstinence  The practice of self-denial by depriving one's self of certain kinds of food or drink, especially of meat.
Abstinency  Abstinence.
Abstinent  Refraining from indulgence, especially from the indulgence of appetite; abstemious; continent; temperate.
Abstinent  One who abstains.
Abstinent  One of a sect who appeared in France and Spain in the 3d century.
Abstinently  With abstinence.
Abstorted  Wrested away.
Abstract  Withdraw; separate.
Abstract  Considered apart from any application to a particular object; separated from matter; existing in the mind only; as, abstract truth, abstract numbers. Hence: ideal; abstruse; difficult.
Abstract  Expressing a particular property of an object viewed apart from the other properties which constitute it; -- opposed to concrete; as, honesty is an abstract word.
Abstract  Resulting from the mental faculty of abstraction; general as opposed to particular; as, "reptile" is an abstract or general name.
Abstract  Abstracted; absent in mind.
Abstracted  of Abstract
Abstracting  of Abstract
Abstract  To withdraw; to separate; to take away.
Abstract  To draw off in respect to interest or attention; as, his was wholly abstracted by other objects.
Abstract  To separate, as ideas, by the operation of the mind; to consider by itself; to contemplate separately, as a quality or attribute.
Abstract  To epitomize; to abridge.
Abstract  To take secretly or dishonestly; to purloin; as, to abstract goods from a parcel, or money from a till.
Abstract  To separate, as the more volatile or soluble parts of a substance, by distillation or other chemical processes. In this sense extract is now more generally used.
Abstract  To perform the process of abstraction.
Abstract  That which comprises or concentrates in itself the essential qualities of a larger thing or of several things. Specifically: A summary or an epitome, as of a treatise or book, or of a statement; a brief.
Abstract  A state of separation from other things; as, to consider a subject in the abstract, or apart from other associated things.
Abstract  An abstract term.
Abstract  A powdered solid extract of a vegetable substance mixed with sugar of milk in such proportion that one part of the abstract represents two parts of the original substance.
Abstracted  Separated or disconnected; withdrawn; removed; apart.
Abstracted  Separated from matter; abstract; ideal.
Abstracted  Abstract; abstruse; difficult.
Abstracted  Inattentive to surrounding objects; absent in mind.
Abstractedly  In an abstracted manner; separately; with absence of mind.
Abstractedness  The state of being abstracted; abstract character.
Abstracter  One who abstracts, or makes an abstract.
Abstraction  The act of abstracting, separating, or withdrawing, or the state of being withdrawn; withdrawal.
Abstraction  The act process of leaving out of consideration one or more properties of a complex object so as to attend to others; analysis. Thus, when the mind considers the form of a tree by itself, or the color of the leaves as separate from their size or figure, the act is called abstraction. So, also, when it considers whiteness, softness, virtue, existence, as separate from any particular objects.
Abstraction  An idea or notion of an abstract, or theoretical nature; as, to fight for mere abstractions.
Abstraction  A separation from worldly objects; a recluse life; as, a hermit's abstraction.
Abstraction  Absence or absorption of mind; inattention to present objects.
Abstraction  The taking surreptitiously for one's own use part of the property of another; purloining.
Abstraction  A separation of volatile parts by the act of distillation.
Abstractional  Pertaining to abstraction.
Abstractionist  An idealist.
Abstractitious  Obtained from plants by distillation.
Abstractive  Having the power of abstracting; of an abstracting nature.
Abstractively  In a abstract manner; separately; in or by itself.
Abstractiveness  The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property.
Abstractly  In an abstract state or manner; separately; absolutely; by itself; as, matter abstractly considered.
Abstractness  The quality of being abstract.
Abstringe  To unbind.
Abstrude  To thrust away.
Abstruse  Concealed or hidden out of the way.
Abstruse  Remote from apprehension; difficult to be comprehended or understood; recondite; as, abstruse learning.
Abstrusely  In an abstruse manner.
Abstruseness  The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension.
Abstrusion  The act of thrusting away.
Abstrusity  Abstruseness; that which is abstruse.
Absume  To consume gradually; to waste away.
Absumption  Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction.
Absurd  Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposed to manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of common sense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, an absurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream.
Absurd  An absurdity.
Absurdities  of Absurdity
Absurdity  The quality of being absurd or inconsistent with obvious truth, reason, or sound judgment.
Absurdity  That which is absurd; an absurd action; a logical contradiction.
Absurdly  In an absurd manner.
Absurdness  Absurdity.
Abuna  The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church.
Abundance  An overflowing fullness; ample sufficiency; great plenty; profusion; copious supply; superfluity; wealth: -- strictly applicable to quantity only, but sometimes used of number.
Abundant  Fully sufficient; plentiful; in copious supply; -- followed by in, rarely by with.
Abundantly  In a sufficient degree; fully; amply; plentifully; in large measure.
Aburst  In a bursting condition.
Abusable  That may be abused.
Abusage  Abuse.
Abused  of Abuse
Abusing  of Abuse
Abuse  To put to a wrong use; to misapply; to misuse; to put to a bad use; to use for a wrong purpose or end; to pervert; as, to abuse inherited gold; to make an excessive use of; as, to abuse one's authority.
Abuse  To use ill; to maltreat; to act injuriously to; to punish or to tax excessively; to hurt; as, to abuse prisoners, to abuse one's powers, one's patience.
Abuse  To revile; to reproach coarsely; to disparage.
Abuse  To dishonor.
Abuse  To violate; to ravish.
Abuse  To deceive; to impose on.
Abuse  Improper treatment or use; application to a wrong or bad purpose; misuse; as, an abuse of our natural powers; an abuse of civil rights, or of privileges or advantages; an abuse of language.
Abuse  Physical ill treatment; injury.
Abuse  A corrupt practice or custom; offense; crime; fault; as, the abuses in the civil service.
Abuse  Vituperative words; coarse, insulting speech; abusive language; virulent condemnation; reviling.
Abuse  Violation; rape; as, abuse of a female child.
Abuseful  Full of abuse; abusive.
Abuser  One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb].
Abusion  Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception; cheat.
Abusive  Wrongly used; perverted; misapplied.
Abusive  Given to misusing; also, full of abuses.
Abusive  Practicing abuse; prone to ill treat by coarse, insulting words or by other ill usage; as, an abusive author; an abusive fellow.
Abusive  Containing abuse, or serving as the instrument of abuse; vituperative; reproachful; scurrilous.
Abusive  Tending to deceive; fraudulent; cheating.
Abusively  In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language.
Abusiveness  The quality of being abusive; rudeness of language, or violence to the person.
Abutted  of Abut
Abutting  of Abut
Abut  To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet; -- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road.
Abutilon  A genus of malvaceous plants of many species, found in the torrid and temperate zones of both continents; -- called also Indian mallow.
Abutment  State of abutting.
Abutment  That on or against which a body abuts or presses
Abutment  The solid part of a pier or wall, etc., which receives the thrust or lateral pressure of an arch, vault, or strut.
Abutment  A fixed point or surface from which resistance or reaction is obtained, as the cylinder head of a steam engine, the fulcrum of a lever, etc.
Abutment  In breech-loading firearms, the block behind the barrel which receives the pressure due to recoil.
Abuttal  The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; a headland.
Abutter  One who, or that which, abuts. Specifically, the owner of a contiguous estate; as, the abutters on a street or a river.
Abuzz  In a buzz; buzzing.
Abought  of Abye
Aby  Alt. of Abye
Abye  To pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to give satisfaction.
Abye  To endure; to abide.
Abysm  An abyss; a gulf.
Abysmal  Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending; profound.
Abysmally  To a fathomless depth; profoundly.
Abyss  A bottomless or unfathomed depth, gulf, or chasm; hence, any deep, immeasurable, and, specifically, hell, or the bottomless pit.
Abyss  Infinite time; a vast intellectual or moral depth.
Abyss  The center of an escutcheon.
Abyssal  Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable.
Abyssinian  Of or pertaining to Abyssinia.
Abyssinian  A native of Abyssinia.
Abyssinian  A member of the Abyssinian Church.
Acacia  A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors, as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals.
Acacias  of Acacia
Acaciae  of Acacia
Acacia  A genus of leguminous trees and shrubs. Nearly 300 species are Australian or Polynesian, and have terete or vertically compressed leaf stalks, instead of the bipinnate leaves of the much fewer species of America, Africa, etc. Very few are found in temperate climates.
Acacia  The inspissated juice of several species of acacia; -- called also gum acacia, and gum arabic.
Acacin  Alt. of Acacine
Acacine  Gum arabic.
Academe  An academy.
Academial  Academic.
Academian  A member of an academy, university, or college.
Academic  Alt. of Academical
Academical  Belonging to the school or philosophy of Plato; as, the Academic sect or philosophy.
Academical  Belonging to an academy or other higher institution of learning; scholarly; literary or classical, in distinction from scientific.
Academic  One holding the philosophy of Socrates and Plato; a Platonist.
Academic  A member of an academy, college, or university; an academician.
Academically  In an academical manner.
Academicals  The articles of dress prescribed and worn at some colleges and universities.
Academician  A member of an academy, or society for promoting science, art, or literature, as of the French Academy, or the Royal Academy of arts.
Academician  A collegian.
Academicism  A tenet of the Academic philosophy.
Academicism  A mannerism or mode peculiar to an academy.
Academism  The doctrines of the Academic philosophy.
Academist  An Academic philosopher.
Academist  An academician.
Academies  of Academy
Academy  A garden or grove near Athens (so named from the hero Academus), where Plato and his followers held their philosophical conferences; hence, the school of philosophy of which Plato was head.
Academy  An institution for the study of higher learning; a college or a university. Popularly, a school, or seminary of learning, holding a rank between a college and a common school.
Academy  A place of training; a school.
Academy  A society of learned men united for the advancement of the arts and sciences, and literature, or some particular art or science; as, the French Academy; the American Academy of Arts and Sciences; academies of literature and philology.
Academy  A school or place of training in which some special art is taught; as, the military academy at West Point; a riding academy; the Academy of Music.
Acadian  Of or pertaining to Acadie, or Nova Scotia.
Acadian  A native of Acadie.
Acajou  The cashew tree; also, its fruit. See Cashew.
Acajou  The mahogany tree; also, its timber.
Acalephs  of Acalephan
Acalephans  of Acalephan
Acaleph  Alt. of Acalephan
Acalephan  One of the Acalephae.
Acalephae  A group of Coelenterata, including the Medusae or jellyfishes, and hydroids; -- so called from the stinging power they possess. Sometimes called sea nettles.
Acalephoid  Belonging to or resembling the Acalephae or jellyfishes.
Acalycine  Alt. of Acalysinous
Acalysinous  Without a calyx, or outer floral envelope.
Acanth  Same as Acanthus.
Acantha  A prickle.
Acantha  A spine or prickly fin.
Acantha  The vertebral column; the spinous process of a vertebra.
Acanthaceous  Armed with prickles, as a plant.
Acanthaceous  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the acanthus is the type.
Acanthine  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant acanthus.
Acanthocarpous  Having the fruit covered with spines.
Acanthocephala  A group of intestinal worms, having the proboscis armed with recurved spines.
Acanthocephalous  Having a spiny head, as one of the Acanthocephala.
Acanthophorous  Spine-bearing.
Acanthopodious  Having spinous petioles.
Acanthopteri  A group of teleostean fishes having spiny fins. See Acanthopterygii.
Acanthopterous  Spiny-winged.
Acanthopterous  Acanthopterygious.
Acanthopterygian  Belonging to the order of fishes having spinose fins, as the perch.
Acanthopterygian  A spiny-finned fish.
Acanthopterygii  An order of fishes having some of the rays of the dorsal, ventral, and anal fins unarticulated and spinelike, as the perch.
Acanthopterygious  Having fins in which the rays are hard and spinelike; spiny-finned.
Acanthuses  of Acanthus
Acanthi  of Acanthus
Acanthus  A genus of herbaceous prickly plants, found in the south of Europe, Asia Minor, and India; bear's-breech.
Acanthus  An ornament resembling the foliage or leaves of the acanthus (Acanthus spinosus); -- used in the capitals of the Corinthian and Composite orders.
Acapsular  Having no capsule.
Acardiac  Without a heart; as, an acardiac fetus.
Acaridan  One of a group of arachnids, including the mites and ticks.
Acarina  The group of Arachnida which includes the mites and ticks. Many species are parasitic, and cause diseases like the itch and mange.
Acarine  Of or caused by acari or mites; as, acarine diseases.
Acaroid  Shaped like or resembling a mite.
Acarpellous  Having no carpels.
Acarpous  Not producing fruit; unfruitful.
Acari  of Acarus
Acarus  A genus including many species of small mites.
Acatalectic  Not defective; complete; as, an acatalectic verse.
Acatalectic  A verse which has the complete number of feet and syllables.
Acatalepsy  Incomprehensibility of things; the doctrine held by the ancient Skeptic philosophers, that human knowledge never amounts to certainty, but only to probability.
Acataleptic  Incapable of being comprehended; incomprehensible.
Acater  See Caterer.
Acates  See Cates.
Acaudate  Tailless.
Acaulescent  Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed in the ground.
Acauline  Same as Acaulescent.
Acaulose  Alt. of Acaulous
Acaulous  Same as Acaulescent.
Accadian  Pertaining to a race supposed to have lived in Babylonia before the Assyrian conquest.
Acceded  of Accede
Acceding  of Accede
Accede  To approach; to come forward; -- opposed to recede.
Accede  To enter upon an office or dignity; to attain.
Accede  To become a party by associating one's self with others; to give one's adhesion. Hence, to agree or assent to a proposal or a view; as, he acceded to my request.
Accedence  The act of acceding.
Acceder  One who accedes.
Accelerando  Gradually accelerating the movement.
Accelerated  of Accelerate
Accelerating  of Accelerate
Accelerate  To cause to move faster; to quicken the motion of; to add to the speed of; -- opposed to retard.
Accelerate  To quicken the natural or ordinary progression or process of; as, to accelerate the growth of a plant, the increase of wealth, etc.
Accelerate  To hasten, as the occurence of an event; as, to accelerate our departure.
Acceleration  The act of accelerating, or the state of being accelerated; increase of motion or action; as, a falling body moves toward the earth with an acceleration of velocity; -- opposed to retardation.
Accelerative  Relating to acceleration; adding to velocity; quickening.
Accelerator  One who, or that which, accelerates. Also as an adj.; as, accelerator nerves.
Acceleratory  Accelerative.
Accelerograph  An apparatus for studying the combustion of powder in guns, etc.
Accelerometer  An apparatus for measuring the velocity imparted by gunpowder.
Accend  To set on fire; to kindle.
Accendibility  Capacity of being kindled, or of becoming inflamed; inflammability.
Accendible  Capable of being inflamed or kindled; combustible; inflammable.
Accension  The act of kindling or the state of being kindled; ignition.
Accensor  One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers.
Accent  A superior force of voice or of articulative effort upon some particular syllable of a word or a phrase, distinguishing it from the others.
Accent  A mark or character used in writing, and serving to regulate the pronunciation; esp.: (a) a mark to indicate the nature and place of the spoken accent; (b) a mark to indicate the quality of sound of the vowel marked; as, the French accents.
Accent  Modulation of the voice in speaking; manner of speaking or pronouncing; peculiar or characteristic modification of the voice; tone; as, a foreign accent; a French or a German accent.
Accent  A word; a significant tone
Accent  expressions in general; speech.
Accent  Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse.
Accent  A regularly recurring stress upon the tone to mark the beginning, and, more feebly, the third part of the measure.
Accent  A special emphasis of a tone, even in the weaker part of the measure.
Accent  The rhythmical accent, which marks phrases and sections of a period.
Accent  The expressive emphasis and shading of a passage.
Accent  A mark placed at the right hand of a letter, and a little above it, to distinguish magnitudes of a similar kind expressed by the same letter, but differing in value, as y', y''.
Accent  A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating minutes of a degree, seconds, etc.; as, 12'27'', i. e., twelve minutes twenty seven seconds.
Accent  A mark used to denote feet and inches; as, 6' 10'' is six feet ten inches.
Accented  of Accent
Accenting  of Accent
Accent  To express the accent of (either by the voice or by a mark); to utter or to mark with accent.
Accent  To mark emphatically; to emphasize.
Accentless  Without accent.
Accentor  One who sings the leading part; the director or leader.
Accentor  A genus of European birds (so named from their sweet notes), including the hedge warbler. In America sometimes applied to the water thrushes.
Accentuable  Capable of being accented.
Accentual  Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent.
Accentuality  The quality of being accentual.
Accentually  In an accentual manner; in accordance with accent.
Accentuated  of Accentuate
Accentuating  of Accentuate
Accentuate  To pronounce with an accent or with accents.
Accentuate  To bring out distinctly; to make prominent; to emphasize.
Accentuate  To mark with the written accent.
Accentuation  Act of accentuating; applications of accent.
Accentuation  pitch or modulation of the voice in reciting portions of the liturgy.
Accepted  of Accept
Accepting  of Accept
Accept  To receive with a consenting mind (something offered); as, to accept a gift; -- often followed by of.
Accept  To receive with favor; to approve.
Accept  To receive or admit and agree to; to assent to; as, I accept your proposal, amendment, or excuse.
Accept  To take by the mind; to understand; as, How are these words to be accepted?
Accept  To receive as obligatory and promise to pay; as, to accept a bill of exchange.
Accept  In a deliberate body, to receive in acquittance of a duty imposed; as, to accept the report of a committee. [This makes it the property of the body, and the question is then on its adoption.]
Accept  Accepted.
Acceptability  The quality of being acceptable; acceptableness.
Acceptable  Capable, worthy, or sure of being accepted or received with pleasure; pleasing to a receiver; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; as, an acceptable present, one acceptable to us.
Acceptableness  The quality of being acceptable, or suitable to be favorably received; acceptability.
Acceptably  In an acceptable manner; in a manner to please or give satisfaction.
Acceptance  The act of accepting; a receiving what is offered, with approbation, satisfaction, or acquiescence; esp., favorable reception; approval; as, the acceptance of a gift, office, doctrine, etc.
Acceptance  State of being accepted; acceptableness.
Acceptance  An assent and engagement by the person on whom a bill of exchange is drawn, to pay it when due according to the terms of the acceptance.
Acceptance  The bill itself when accepted.
Acceptance  An agreeing to terms or proposals by which a bargain is concluded and the parties are bound; the reception or taking of a thing bought as that for which it was bought, or as that agreed to be delivered, or the taking possession as owner.
Acceptance  An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds the person in law.
Acceptance  Meaning; acceptation.
Baa  To cry baa, or bleat as a sheep.
Baas  of Baa
Baa  The cry or bleating of a sheep; a bleat.
Baaing  The bleating of a sheep.
Baalim  of Baal
Baal  The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitish nations.
Baal  The whole class of divinities to whom the name Baal was applied.
Baalism  Worship of Baal; idolatry.
Baalist  Alt. of Baalite
Baalite  A worshiper of Baal; a devotee of any false religion; an idolater.
Baba  A kind of plum cake.
Babbitt  To line with Babbitt metal.
Babbitt  A soft white alloy of variable composition (as a nine parts of tin to one of copper, or of fifty parts of tin to five of antimony and one of copper) used in bearings to diminish friction.
Babbled  of Babble
Babbling  of Babble
Babble  To utter words indistinctly or unintelligibly; to utter inarticulate sounds; as a child babbles.
Babble  To talk incoherently; to utter unmeaning words.
Babble  To talk much; to chatter; to prate.
Babble  To make a continuous murmuring noise, as shallow water running over stones.
Babble  To utter in an indistinct or incoherent way; to repeat, as words, in a childish way without understanding.
Babble  To disclose by too free talk, as a secret.
Babble  Idle talk; senseless prattle; gabble; twaddle.
Babble  Inarticulate speech; constant or confused murmur.
Babblement  Babble.
Babbler  An idle talker; an irrational prater; a teller of secrets.
Babbler  A hound too noisy on finding a good scent.
Babbler  A name given to any one of family (Timalinae) of thrushlike birds, having a chattering note.
Babblery  Babble.
Babe  An infant; a young child of either sex; a baby.
Babe  A doll for children.
Babehood  Babyhood.
Babel  The city and tower in the land of Shinar, where the confusion of languages took place.
Babel  Hence: A place or scene of noise and confusion; a confused mixture of sounds, as of voices or languages.
Babery  Finery of a kind to please a child.
Babian  Alt. of Babion
Babion  A baboon.
Babillard  The lesser whitethroat of Europe; -- called also babbling warbler.
Babingtonite  A mineral occurring in triclinic crystals approaching pyroxene in angle, and of a greenish black color. It is a silicate of iron, manganese, and lime.
Babiroussa  Alt. of Babirussa
Babirussa  A large hoglike quadruped (Sus, / Porcus, babirussa) of the East Indies, sometimes domesticated; the Indian hog. Its upper canine teeth or tusks are large and recurved.
Babish  Like a babe; a childish; babyish.
Babism  The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated in Persia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish and Parsee elements.
Babist  A believer in Babism.
Bablah  The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia; neb-neb. It contains gallic acid and tannin, and is used for dyeing drab.
Baboo  Alt. of Babu
Babu  A Hindoo gentleman; a native clerk who writes English; also, a Hindoo title answering to Mr. or Esquire.
Baboon  One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus and Papio; the dog-faced ape. Baboons have dog-like muzzles and large canine teeth, cheek pouches, a short tail, and naked callosities on the buttocks. They are mostly African. See Mandrill, and Chacma, and Drill an ape.
Baboonery  Baboonish behavior.
Baboonish  Like a baboon.
Babies  of Baby
Baby  An infant or young child of either sex; a babe.
Baby  A small image of an infant; a doll.
Baby  Pertaining to, or resembling, an infant; young or little; as, baby swans.
Babied  of Baby
Babying  of Baby
Baby  To treat like a young child; to keep dependent; to humor; to fondle.
Baby  A place where the nourishment and care of babies are offered for hire.
Baby  One who keeps a baby farm.
Baby  The business of keeping a baby farm.
Babyhood  The state or period of infancy.
Babyhouse  A place for children's dolls and dolls' furniture.
Babyish  Like a baby; childish; puerile; simple.
Babyism  The state of being a baby.
Babyism  A babyish manner of acting or speaking.
Baby  A hoop suspended by an elastic strap, in which a young child may be held secure while amusing itself by jumping on the floor.
Babylonian  Of or pertaining to the real or to the mystical Babylon, or to the ancient kingdom of Babylonia; Chaldean.
Babylonian  An inhabitant of Babylonia (which included Chaldea); a Chaldean.
Babylonian  An astrologer; -- so called because the Chaldeans were remarkable for the study of astrology.
Babylonic  Alt. of Babylonical
Babylonical  Pertaining to Babylon, or made there; as, Babylonic garments, carpets, or hangings.
Babylonical  Tumultuous; disorderly.
Babylonish  Of or pertaining to, or made in, Babylon or Babylonia.
Babylonish  Pertaining to the Babylon of Revelation xiv. 8.
Babylonish  Pertaining to Rome and papal power.
Babylonish  Confused; Babel-like.
Babyroussa  Alt. of Babyrussa
Babyrussa  See Babyroussa.
Babyship  The quality of being a baby; the personality of an infant.
Bac  A broad, flatbottomed ferryboat, usually worked by a rope.
Bac  A vat or cistern. See 1st Back.
Baccalaureate  The degree of bachelor of arts. (B.A. or A.B.), the first or lowest academical degree conferred by universities and colleges.
Baccalaureate  A baccalaureate sermon.
Baccalaureate  Pertaining to a bachelor of arts.
Baccara  Alt. of Baccarat
Baccarat  A French game of cards, played by a banker and punters.
Baccare  Alt. of Backare
Backare  Stand back! give place! -- a cant word of the Elizabethan writers, probably in ridicule of some person who pretended to a knowledge of Latin which he did not possess.
Baccate  Pulpy throughout, like a berry; -- said of fruits.
Baccated  Having many berries.
Baccated  Set or adorned with pearls.
Bacchanal  Relating to Bacchus or his festival.
Bacchanal  Engaged in drunken revels; drunken and riotous or noisy.
Bacchanal  A devotee of Bacchus; one who indulges in drunken revels; one who is noisy and riotous when intoxicated; a carouser.
Bacchanal  The festival of Bacchus; the bacchanalia.
Bacchanal  Drunken revelry; an orgy.
Bacchanal  A song or dance in honor of Bacchus.
Bacchanalia  A feast or an orgy in honor of Bacchus.
Bacchanalia  Hence: A drunken feast; drunken reveler.
Bacchanalian  Of or pertaining to the festival of Bacchus; relating to or given to reveling and drunkenness.
Bacchanalian  A bacchanal; a drunken reveler.
Bacchanalianism  The practice of bacchanalians; bacchanals; drunken revelry.
Bacchants  of Bacchant
Bacchantes  of Bacchant
Bacchant  A priest of Bacchus.
Bacchant  A bacchanal; a reveler.
Bacchant  Bacchanalian; fond of drunken revelry; wine-loving; reveling; carousing.
Bacchantes  of Bacchante
Bacchante  A priestess of Bacchus.
Bacchante  A female bacchanal.
Bacchantic  Bacchanalian.
Bacchic  Alt. of Bacchical
Bacchical  Of or relating to Bacchus; hence, jovial, or riotous,with intoxication.
Bacchii  of Bacchius
Bacchius  A metrical foot composed of a short syllable and two long ones; according to some, two long and a short.
Bacchus  The god of wine, son of Jupiter and Semele.
Bacciferous  Producing berries.
Bacciform  Having the form of a berry.
Baccivorous  Eating, or subsisting on, berries; as, baccivorous birds.
Bace  See Base.
Bacharach  Alt. of Backarack
Backarack  A kind of wine made at Bacharach on the Rhine.
Bachelor  A man of any age who has not been married.
Bachelor  An unmarried woman.
Bachelor  A person who has taken the first or lowest degree in the liberal arts, or in some branch of science, at a college or university; as, a bachelor of arts.
Bachelor  A knight who had no standard of his own, but fought under the standard of another in the field; often, a young knight.
Bachelor  In the companies of London tradesmen, one not yet admitted to wear the livery; a junior member.
Bachelor  A kind of bass, an edible fresh-water fish (Pomoxys annularis) of the southern United States.
Bachelordom  The state of bachelorhood; the whole body of bachelors.
Bachelorhood  The state or condition of being a bachelor; bachelorship.
Bachelorism  Bachelorhood; also, a manner or peculiarity belonging to bachelors.
Bachelor's  A plant with flowers shaped like buttons; especially, several species of Ranunculus, and the cornflower (Centaures cyanus) and globe amaranth (Gomphrena).
Bachelorship  The state of being a bachelor.
Bachelry  The body of young aspirants for knighthood.
Bacillar  Shaped like a rod or staff.
Bacillariae  See Diatom.
Bacillary  Of or pertaining to little rods; rod-shaped.
Bacilliform  Rod-shaped.
Bacilli  of Bacillus
Bacillus  A variety of bacterium; a microscopic, rod-shaped vegetable organism.
Back  A large shallow vat; a cistern, tub, or trough, used by brewers, distillers, dyers, picklers, gluemakers, and others, for mixing or cooling wort, holding water, hot glue, etc.
Back  A ferryboat. See Bac, 1.
Back  In human beings, the hinder part of the body, extending from the neck to the end of the spine; in other animals, that part of the body which corresponds most nearly to such part of a human being; as, the back of a horse, fish, or lobster.
Back  An extended upper part, as of a mountain or ridge.
Back  The outward or upper part of a thing, as opposed to the inner or lower part; as, the back of the hand, the back of the foot, the back of a hand rail.
Back  The part opposed to the front; the hinder or rear part of a thing; as, the back of a book; the back of an army; the back of a chimney.
Back  The part opposite to, or most remote from, that which fronts the speaker or actor; or the part out of sight, or not generally seen; as, the back of an island, of a hill, or of a village.
Back  The part of a cutting tool on the opposite side from its edge; as, the back of a knife, or of a saw.
Back  A support or resource in reserve.
Back  The keel and keelson of a ship.
Back  The upper part of a lode, or the roof of a horizontal underground passage.
Back  A garment for the back; hence, clothing.
Back  Being at the back or in the rear; distant; remote; as, the back door; back settlements.
Back  Being in arrear; overdue; as, back rent.
Back  Moving or operating backward; as, back action.
Backed  of Back
Backing  of Back
Back  To get upon the back of; to mount.
Back  To place or seat upon the back.
Back  To drive or force backward; to cause to retreat or recede; as, to back oxen.
Back  To make a back for; to furnish with a back; as, to back books.
Back  To adjoin behind; to be at the back of.
Back  To write upon the back of; as, to back a letter; to indorse; as, to back a note or legal document.
Back  To support; to maintain; to second or strengthen by aid or influence; as, to back a friend.
Back  To bet on the success of; -- as, to back a race horse.
Back  To move or go backward; as, the horse refuses to back.
Back  To change from one quarter to another by a course opposite to that of the sun; -- used of the wind.
Back  To stand still behind another dog which has pointed; -- said of a dog.
Back  In, to, or toward, the rear; as, to stand back; to step back.
Back  To the place from which one came; to the place or person from which something is taken or derived; as, to go back for something left behind; to go back to one's native place; to put a book back after reading it.
Back  To a former state, condition, or station; as, to go back to private life; to go back to barbarism.
Back  (Of time) In times past; ago.
Back  Away from contact; by reverse movement.
Back  In concealment or reserve; in one's own possession; as, to keep back the truth; to keep back part of the money due to another.
Back  In a state of restraint or hindrance.
Back  In return, repayment, or requital.
Back  In withdrawal from a statement, promise, or undertaking; as, he took back0 the offensive words.
Back  In arrear; as, to be back in one's rent.
Backarack  See Bacharach.
Backare  Same as Baccare.
Backband  The band which passes over the back of a horse and holds up the shafts of a carriage.
Backbite  To wound by clandestine detraction; to censure meanly or spitefully (an absent person); to slander or speak evil of (one absent).
Backbite  To censure or revile the absent.
Backbiter  One who backbites; a secret calumniator or detractor.
Backbiting  Secret slander; detraction.
Backboard  A board which supports the back wen one is sitting;
Backboard  A board serving as the back part of anything, as of a wagon.
Backboard  A thin stuff used for the backs of framed pictures, mirrors, etc.
Backboard  A board attached to the rim of a water wheel to prevent the water from running off the floats or paddies into the interior of the wheel.
Backboard  A board worn across the back to give erectness to the figure.
Backbond  An instrument which, in conjunction with another making an absolute disposition, constitutes a trust.
Backbone  The column of bones in the back which sustains and gives firmness to the frame; the spine; the vertebral or spinal column.
Backbone  Anything like , or serving the purpose of, a backbone.
Backbone  Firmness; moral principle; steadfastness.
Backboned  Vertebrate.
Backcast  Anything which brings misfortune upon one, or causes failure in an effort or enterprise; a reverse.
Back  A door in the back part of a building; hence, an indirect way.
Backdoor  Acting from behind and in concealment; as, backdoor intrigues.
Backdown  A receding or giving up; a complete surrender.
Backed  Having a back; fitted with a back; as, a backed electrotype or stereotype plate. Used in composition; as, broad-backed; hump-backed.
Backer  One who, or that which, backs; especially one who backs a person or thing in a contest.
Backfall  A fall or throw on the back in wrestling.
Backfriend  A secret enemy.
Backgammon  A game of chance and skill, played by two persons on a "board" marked off into twenty-four spaces called "points". Each player has fifteen pieces, or "men", the movements of which from point to point are determined by throwing dice. Formerly called tables.
Backgammon  In the game of backgammon, to beat by ending the game before the loser is clear of his first "table".
Background  Ground in the rear or behind, or in the distance, as opposed to the foreground, or the ground in front.
Background  The space which is behind and subordinate to a portrait or group of figures.
Background  Anything behind, serving as a foil; as, the statue had a background of red hangings.
Background  A place in obscurity or retirement, or out of sight.
Backhand  A kind of handwriting in which the downward slope of the letters is from left to right.
Backhand  Sloping from left to right; -- said of handwriting.
Backhand  Backhanded; indirect; oblique.
Backhanded  With the hand turned backward; as, a backhanded blow.
Backhanded  Indirect; awkward; insincere; sarcastic; as, a backhanded compliment.
Backhanded  Turned back, or inclining to the left; as, a backhanded letters.
Backhandedness  State of being backhanded; the using of backhanded or indirect methods.
Backhander  A backhanded blow.
Backhouse  A building behind the main building. Specifically: A privy; a necessary.
Backing  The act of moving backward, or of putting or moving anything backward.
Backing  That which is behind, and forms the back of, anything, usually giving strength or stability.
Backing  Support or aid given to a person or cause.
Backing  The preparation of the back of a book with glue, etc., before putting on the cover.
Backjoint  A rebate or chase in masonry left to receive a permanent slab or other filling.
Backlash  The distance through which one part of connected machinery, as a wheel, piston, or screw, can be moved without moving the connected parts, resulting from looseness in fitting or from wear; also, the jarring or reflex motion caused in badly fitting machinery by irregularities in velocity or a reverse of motion.
Backless  Without a back.
Backlog  A large stick of wood, forming the back of a fire on the hearth.
Backpiece  Alt. of Backplate
Backplate  A piece, or plate which forms the back of anything, or which covers the back; armor for the back.
Backrack  Alt. of Backrag
Backrag  See Bacharach.
Backs  Among leather dealers, the thickest and stoutest tanned hides.
Backsaw  A saw (as a tenon saw) whose blade is stiffened by an added metallic back.
Backset  A check; a relapse; a discouragement; a setback.
Backset  Whatever is thrown back in its course, as water.
Backset  To plow again, in the fall; -- said of prairie land broken up in the spring.
Backsettler  One living in the back or outlying districts of a community.
Backsheesh  Alt. of Backshish
Backshish  In Egypt and the Turkish empire, a gratuity; a "tip".
Backside  The hinder part, posteriors, or rump of a person or animal.
Backsight  The reading of the leveling staff in its unchanged position when the leveling instrument has been taken to a new position; a sight directed backwards to a station previously occupied. Cf. Foresight, n., 3.
Backslid  of Backslide
Backslidden  of Backslide
Backslid  of Backslide
Backsliding  of Backslide
Backslide  To slide back; to fall away; esp. to abandon gradually the faith and practice of a religion that has been professed.
Backslider  One who backslides.
Backsliding  Slipping back; falling back into sin or error; sinning.
Backsliding  The act of one who backslides; abandonment of faith or duty.
Backstaff  An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of the heavenly bodies, but now superseded by the quadrant and sextant; -- so called because the observer turned his back to the body observed.
Back  Stairs in the back part of a house, as distinguished from the front stairs; hence, a private or indirect way.
Backstairs  Alt. of Backstair
Backstair  Private; indirect; secret; intriguing; -- as if finding access by the back stairs.
Backstay  A rope or stay extending from the masthead to the side of a ship, slanting a little aft, to assist the shrouds in supporting the mast.
Backstay  A rope or strap used to prevent excessive forward motion.
Backster  A backer.
Backstitch  A stitch made by setting the needle back of the end of the last stitch, and bringing it out in front of the end.
Backstitch  To sew with backstitches; as, to backstitch a seam.
Backstress  A female baker.
Backsword  A sword with one sharp edge.
Backsword  In England, a stick with a basket handle, used in rustic amusements; also, the game in which the stick is used. Also called singlestick.
Backward  Alt. of Backwards
Backwards  With the back in advance or foremost; as, to ride backward.
Backwards  Toward the back; toward the rear; as, to throw the arms backward.
Backwards  On the back, or with the back downward.
Backwards  Toward, or in, past time or events; ago.
Backwards  By way of reflection; reflexively.
Backwards  From a better to a worse state, as from honor to shame, from religion to sin.
Backwards  In a contrary or reverse manner, way, or direction; contrarily; as, to read backwards.
Backward  Directed to the back or rear; as, backward glances.
Backward  Unwilling; averse; reluctant; hesitating; loath.
Backward  Not well advanced in learning; not quick of apprehension; dull; inapt; as, a backward child.
Backward  Late or behindhand; as, a backward season.
Backward  Not advanced in civilization; undeveloped; as, the country or region is in a backward state.
Backward  Already past or gone; bygone.
Backward  The state behind or past.
Backward  To keep back; to hinder.
Backwardation  The seller's postponement of delivery of stock or shares, with the consent of the buyer, upon payment of a premium to the latter; -- also, the premium so paid. See Contango.
Backwardly  Reluctantly; slowly; aversely.
Backwardly  Perversely; ill.
Backwardness  The state of being backward.
Backwash  To clean the oil from (wood) after combing.
Backwater  Water turned back in its course by an obstruction, an opposing current , or the flow of the tide, as in a sewer or river channel, or across a river bar.
Backwater  An accumulation of water overflowing the low lands, caused by an obstruction.
Backwater  Water thrown back by the turning of a waterwheel, or by the paddle wheels of a steamer.
Backwoods  The forests or partly cleared grounds on the frontiers.
Backwoodsmen  of Backwoodsman
Backwoodsman  A man living in the forest in or beyond the new settlements, especially on the western frontiers of the older portions of the United States.
Backworm  A disease of hawks. See Filanders.
Bacon  The back and sides of a pig salted and smoked; formerly, the flesh of a pig salted or fresh.
Baconian  Of or pertaining to Lord Bacon, or to his system of philosophy.
Bacteria  See Bacterium.
Bacterial  Of or pertaining to bacteria.
Bactericidal  Destructive of bacteria.
Bactericide  Same as Germicide.
Bacteriological  Of or pertaining to bacteriology; as, bacteriological studies.
Bacteriologist  One skilled in bacteriology.
Bacteriology  The science relating to bacteria.
Bacterioscopic  Relating to bacterioscopy; as, a bacterioscopic examination.
Bacterioscopist  One skilled in bacterioscopic examinations.
Bacterioscopy  The application of a knowledge of bacteria for their detection and identification, as in the examination of polluted water.
Bacteria  of Bacterium
Bacterium  A microscopic vegetable organism, belonging to the class Algae, usually in the form of a jointed rodlike filament, and found in putrefying organic infusions. Bacteria are destitute of chlorophyll, and are the smallest of microscopic organisms. They are very widely diffused in nature, and multiply with marvelous rapidity, both by fission and by spores. Certain species are active agents in fermentation, while others appear to be the cause of certain infectious diseases. See Bacillus.
Bacteroid  Alt. of Bacteroidal
Bacteroidal  Resembling bacteria; as, bacteroid particles.
Bactrian  Of or pertaining to Bactria in Asia.
Bactrian  A native of Bactria.
Bacule  See Bascule.
Baculine  Of or pertaining to the rod or punishment with the rod.
Baculite  A cephalopod of the extinct genus Baculites, found fossil in the Cretaceous rocks. It is like an uncoiled ammonite.
Baculometry  Measurement of distance or altitude by a staff or staffs.
Bad  Bade.
Bad  Wanting good qualities, whether physical or moral; injurious, hurtful, inconvenient, offensive, painful, unfavorable, or defective, either physically or morally; evil; vicious; wicked; -- the opposite of good; as, a bad man; bad conduct; bad habits; bad soil; bad health; bad crop; bad news.
Badder  compar. of Bad, a.
Badderlocks  A large black seaweed (Alaria esculenta) sometimes eaten in Europe; -- also called murlins, honeyware, and henware.
Baddish  Somewhat bad; inferior.
Bade  A form of the pat tense of Bid.
Badge  A distinctive mark, token, sign, or cognizance, worn on the person; as, the badge of a society; the badge of a policeman.
Badge  Something characteristic; a mark; a token.
Badge  A carved ornament on the stern of a vessel, containing a window or the representation of one.
Badge  To mark or distinguish with a badge.
Badgeless  Having no badge.
Badger  An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; a hawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who bought grain in one place and sold it in another.
Badger  A carnivorous quadruped of the genus Meles or of an allied genus. It is a burrowing animal, with short, thick legs, and long claws on the fore feet. One species (M. vulgaris), called also brock, inhabits the north of Europe and Asia; another species (Taxidea Americana / Labradorica) inhabits the northern parts of North America. See Teledu.
Badger  A brush made of badgers' hair, used by artists.
Badgered  of Badger
Badgering  of Badger
Badger  To tease or annoy, as a badger when baited; to worry or irritate persistently.
Badger  To beat down; to cheapen; to barter; to bargain.
Badgerer  One who badgers.
Badgerer  A kind of dog used in badger baiting.
Badgering  The act of one who badgers.
Badgering  The practice of buying wheat and other kinds of food in one place and selling them in another for a profit.
Badger-legged  Having legs of unequal length, as the badger was thought to have.
Badiaga  A fresh-water sponge (Spongilla), common in the north of Europe, the powder of which is used to take away the livid marks of bruises.
Badian  An evergreen Chinese shrub of the Magnolia family (Illicium anisatum), and its aromatic seeds; Chinese anise; star anise.
Badigeon  A cement or paste (as of plaster and freestone, or of sawdust and glue or lime) used by sculptors, builders, and workers in wood or stone, to fill holes, cover defects, or finish a surface.
Badinage  Playful raillery; banter.
Bad  Barren regions, especially in the western United States, where horizontal strata (Tertiary deposits) have been often eroded into fantastic forms, and much intersected by caons, and where lack of wood, water, and forage increases the difficulty of traversing the country, whence the name, first given by the Canadian French, Mauvaises Terres (bad lands).
Badly  In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly; unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably; seriously.
Badminton  A game, similar to lawn tennis, played with shuttlecocks.
Badminton  A preparation of claret, spiced and sweetened.
Badness  The state of being bad.
Baenomere  One of the somites (arthromeres) that make up the thorax of Arthropods.
Baenopod  One of the thoracic legs of Arthropods.
Baenosome  The thorax of Arthropods.
Baff  A blow; a stroke.
Baffled  of Baffle
Baffling  of Baffle
Baffle  To cause to undergo a disgraceful punishment, as a recreant knight.
Baffle  To check by shifts and turns; to elude; to foil.
Baffle  To check by perplexing; to disconcert, frustrate, or defeat; to thwart.
Baffle  To practice deceit.
Baffle  To struggle against in vain; as, a ship baffles with the winds.
Baffle  A defeat by artifice, shifts, and turns; discomfiture.
Bafflement  The process or act of baffling, or of being baffled; frustration; check.
Baffler  One who, or that which, baffles.
Baffling  Frustrating; discomfiting; disconcerting; as, baffling currents, winds, tasks.
Baft  Same as Bafta.
Bafta  A coarse stuff, usually of cotton, originally made in India. Also, an imitation of this fabric made for export.
Bag  A sack or pouch, used for holding anything; as, a bag of meal or of money.
Bag  A sac, or dependent gland, in animal bodies, containing some fluid or other substance; as, the bag of poison in the mouth of some serpents; the bag of a cow.
Bag  A sort of silken purse formerly tied about men's hair behind, by way of ornament.
Bag  The quantity of game bagged.
Bag  A certain quantity of a commodity, such as it is customary to carry to market in a sack; as, a bag of pepper or hops; a bag of coffee.
Bagged  of Bag
Bagging  of Bag
Bag  To put into a bag; as, to bag hops.
Bag  To seize, capture, or entrap; as, to bag an army; to bag game.
Bag  To furnish or load with a bag or with a well filled bag.
Bag  To swell or hang down like a full bag; as, the skin bags from containing morbid matter.
Bag  To swell with arrogance.
Bag  To become pregnant.
Bagasse  Sugar cane, as it comes crushed from the mill. It is then dried and used as fuel. Also extended to the refuse of beetroot sugar.
Bagatelle  A trifle; a thing of no importance.
Bagatelle  A game played on an oblong board, having, at one end, cups or arches into or through which balls are to be driven by a rod held in the hand of the player.
Baggage  The clothes, tents, utensils, and provisions of an army.
Baggage  The trunks, valises, satchels, etc., which a traveler carries with him on a journey; luggage.
Baggage  Purulent matter.
Baggage  Trashy talk.
Baggage  A man of bad character.
Baggage  A woman of loose morals; a prostitute.
Baggage  A romping, saucy girl.
Baggage  One who has charge of the baggage at a railway station or upon a line of public travel.
Baggager  One who takes care of baggage; a camp follower.
Baggala  A two-masted Arab or Indian trading vessel, used in Indian Ocean.
Baggily  In a loose, baggy way.
Bagging  Cloth or other material for bags.
Bagging  The act of putting anything into, or as into, a bag.
Bagging  The act of swelling; swelling.
Bagging  Reaping peas, beans, wheat, etc., with a chopping stroke.
Baggy  Resembling a bag; loose or puffed out, or pendent, like a bag; flabby; as, baggy trousers; baggy cheeks.
Bagmen  of Bagman
Bagman  A commercial traveler; one employed to solicit orders for manufacturers and tradesmen.
Bag  A bag-shaped net for catching fish.
Bagnio  A house for bathing, sweating, etc.; -- also, in Turkey, a prison for slaves.
Bagnio  A brothel; a stew; a house of prostitution.
Bagpipe  A musical wind instrument, now used chiefly in the Highlands of Scotland.
Bagpipe  To make to look like a bagpipe.
Bagpiper  One who plays on a bagpipe; a piper.
Bagreef  The lower reef of fore and aft sails; also, the upper reef of topsails.
Bague  The annular molding or group of moldings dividing a long shaft or clustered column into two or more parts.
Baguet  Alt. of Baguette
Baguette  A small molding, like the astragal, but smaller; a bead.
Baguette  One of the minute bodies seen in the divided nucleoli of some Infusoria after conjugation.
Bagwig  A wig, in use in the 18th century, with the hair at the back of the head in a bag.
Bagworm  One of several lepidopterous insects which construct, in the larval state, a baglike case which they carry about for protection. One species (Platoeceticus Gloveri) feeds on the orange tree. See Basket worm.
Bah  An exclamation expressive of extreme contempt.
Bahar  A weight used in certain parts of the East Indies, varying considerably in different localities, the range being from 223 to 625 pounds.
Baigne  To soak or drench.
Bail  A bucket or scoop used in bailing water out of a boat.
Bailed  of Bail
Bailing  of Bail
Bail  To lade; to dip and throw; -- usually with out; as, to bail water out of a boat.
Bail  To dip or lade water from; -- often with out to express completeness; as, to bail a boat.
Bail  To deliver; to release.
Bail  To set free, or deliver from arrest, or out of custody, on the undertaking of some other person or persons that he or they will be responsible for the appearance, at a certain day and place, of the person bailed.
Bail  To deliver, as goods in trust, for some special object or purpose, upon a contract, expressed or implied, that the trust shall be faithfully executed on the part of the bailee, or person intrusted; as, to bail cloth to a tailor to be made into a garment; to bail goods to a carrier.
Bail  Custody; keeping.
Bail  The person or persons who procure the release of a prisoner from the custody of the officer, or from imprisonment, by becoming surely for his appearance in court.
Bail  The security given for the appearance of a prisoner in order to obtain his release from custody of the officer; as, the man is out on bail; to go bail for any one.
Bail  The arched handle of a kettle, pail, or similar vessel, usually movable.
Bail  A half hoop for supporting the cover of a carrier's wagon, awning of a boat, etc.
Bail  A line of palisades serving as an exterior defense.
Bail  The outer wall of a feudal castle. Hence: The space inclosed by it; the outer court.
Bail  A certain limit within a forest.
Bail  A division for the stalls of an open stable.
Bail  The top or cross piece ( or either of the two cross pieces) of the wicket.
Bailable  Having the right or privilege of being admitted to bail, upon bond with sureties; -- used of persons.
Bailable  Admitting of bail; as, a bailable offense.
Bailable  That can be delivered in trust; as, bailable goods.
Bail  A bond or obligation given by a prisoner and his surety, to insure the prisoner's appearance in court, at the return of the writ.
Bail  Special bail in court to abide the judgment.
Bailee  The person to whom goods are committed in trust, and who has a temporary possession and a qualified property in them, for the purposes of the trust.
Bailer  See Bailor.
Bailer  One who bails or lades.
Bailer  A utensil, as a bucket or cup, used in bailing; a machine for bailing water out of a pit.
Bailey  The outer wall of a feudal castle.
Bailey  The space immediately within the outer wall of a castle or fortress.
Bailey  A prison or court of justice; -- used in certain proper names; as, the Old Bailey in London; the New Bailey in Manchester.
Bailie  An officer in Scotland, whose office formerly corresponded to that of sheriff, but now corresponds to that of an English alderman.
Bailiff  Originally, a person put in charge of something especially, a chief officer, magistrate, or keeper, as of a county, town, hundred, or castle; one to whom power/ of custody or care are intrusted.
Bailiff  A sheriff's deputy, appointed to make arrests, collect fines, summon juries, etc.
Bailiff  An overseer or under steward of an estate, who directs husbandry operations, collects rents, etc.
Bailiffwick  See Bailiwick.
Bailiwick  The precincts within which a bailiff has jurisdiction; the limits of a bailiff's authority.
Baillie  Bailiff.
Baillie  Same as Bailie.
Bailment  The action of bailing a person accused.
Bailment  A delivery of goods or money by one person to another in trust, for some special purpose, upon a contract, expressed or implied, that the trust shall be faithfully executed.
Bailor  One who delivers goods or money to another in trust.
Bailpiece  A piece of parchment, or paper, containing a recognizance or bail bond.
Bain  A bath; a bagnio.
Bain-marie  A vessel for holding hot water in which another vessel may be heated without scorching its contents; -- used for warming or preparing food or pharmaceutical preparations.
Bairam  The name of two Mohammedan festivals, of which one is held at the close of the fast called Ramadan, and the other seventy days after the fast.
Bairn  A child.
Baisemains  Respects; compliments.
Bait  Any substance, esp. food, used in catching fish, or other animals, by alluring them to a hook, snare, inclosure, or net.
Bait  Anything which allures; a lure; enticement; temptation.
Bait  A portion of food or drink, as a refreshment taken on a journey; also, a stop for rest and refreshment.
Bait  A light or hasty luncheon.
Baited  of Bait
Baiting  of Bait
Bait  To provoke and harass; esp., to harass or torment for sport; as, to bait a bear with dogs; to bait a bull.
Bait  To give a portion of food and drink to, upon the road; as, to bait horses.
Bait  To furnish or cover with bait, as a trap or hook.
Bait  To stop to take a portion of food and drink for refreshment of one's self or one's beasts, on a journey.
Bait  To flap the wings; to flutter as if to fly; or to hover, as a hawk when she stoops to her prey.
Baiter  One who baits; a tormentor.
Baize  A coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plain colors.
Bajocco  A small copper coin formerly current in the Roman States, worth about a cent and a half.
Baked  of Bake
Baking  of Bake
Bake  To prepare, as food, by cooking in a dry heat, either in an oven or under coals, or on heated stone or metal; as, to bake bread, meat, apples.
Bake  To dry or harden (anything) by subjecting to heat, as, to bake bricks; the sun bakes the ground.
Bake  To harden by cold.
Bake  To do the work of baking something; as, she brews, washes, and bakes.
Bake  To be baked; to become dry and hard in heat; as, the bread bakes; the ground bakes in the hot sun.
Bake  The process, or result, of baking.
Bakehouse  A house for baking; a bakery.
Bakemeat  Alt. of Baked-meat
Baked-meat  A pie; baked food.
Baken  p. p. of Bake.
Baker  One whose business it is to bake bread, biscuit, etc.
Baker  A portable oven in which baking is done.
Baker-legged  Having legs that bend inward at the knees.
Bakery  The trade of a baker.
Bakery  The place for baking bread; a bakehouse.
Baking  The act or process of cooking in an oven, or of drying and hardening by heat or cold.
Baking  The quantity baked at once; a batch; as, a baking of bread.
Bakingly  In a hot or baking manner.
Bakistre  A baker.
Baksheesh  Alt. of Bakshish
Bakshish  Same as Backsheesh.
Balaam  A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out a newspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's ass speaking.
Balachong  A condiment formed of small fishes or shrimps, pounded up with salt and spices, and then dried. It is much esteemed in China.
Balaenoidea  A division of the Cetacea, including the right whale and all other whales having the mouth fringed with baleen. See Baleen.
Balance  An apparatus for weighing.
Balance  Act of weighing mentally; comparison; estimate.
Balance  Equipoise between the weights in opposite scales.
Balance  The state of being in equipoise; equilibrium; even adjustment; steadiness.
Balance  An equality between the sums total of the two sides of an account; as, to bring one's accounts to a balance; -- also, the excess on either side; as, the balance of an account.
Balance  A balance wheel, as of a watch, or clock. See Balance wheel (in the Vocabulary).
Balance  The constellation Libra.
Balance  The seventh sign in the Zodiac, called Libra, which the sun enters at the equinox in September.
Balance  A movement in dancing. See Balance, v. i., S.
Balanced  of Balance
Balancing  of Balance
Balance  To bring to an equipoise, as the scales of a balance by adjusting the weights; to weigh in a balance.
Balance  To support on a narrow base, so as to keep from falling; as, to balance a plate on the end of a cane; to balance one's self on a tight rope.
Balance  To equal in number, weight, force, or proportion; to counterpoise, counterbalance, counteract, or neutralize.
Balance  To compare in relative force, importance, value, etc.; to estimate.
Balance  To settle and adjust, as an account; to make two accounts equal by paying the difference between them.
Balance  To make the sums of the debits and credits of an account equal; -- said of an item; as, this payment, or credit, balances the account.
Balance  To arrange accounts in such a way that the sum total of the debits is equal to the sum total of the credits; as, to balance a set of books.
Balance  To move toward, and then back from, reciprocally; as, to balance partners.
Balance  To contract, as a sail, into a narrower compass; as, to balance the boom mainsail.
Balance  To have equal weight on each side; to be in equipoise; as, the scales balance.
Balance  To fluctuate between motives which appear of equal force; to waver; to hesitate.
Balance  To move toward a person or couple, and then back.
Balanceable  Such as can be balanced.
Balancement  The act or result of balancing or adjusting; equipoise; even adjustment of forces.
Balancer  One who balances, or uses a balance.
Balancer  In Diptera, the rudimentary posterior wing.
Balancereef  The last reef in a fore-and-aft sail, taken to steady the ship.
Balance  A wheel which regulates the beats or pulses of a watch or chronometer, answering to the pendulum of a clock; -- often called simply a balance.
Balance  A ratchet-shaped scape wheel, which in some watches is acted upon by the axis of the balance wheel proper (in those watches called a balance).
Balance  A wheel which imparts regularity to the movements of any engine or machine; a fly wheel.
Balaniferous  Bearing or producing acorns.
Balanite  A fossil balanoid shell.
Balanoglossus  A peculiar marine worm. See Enteropneusta, and Tornaria.
Balanoid  Resembling an acorn; -- applied to a group of barnacles having shells shaped like acorns. See Acornshell, and Barnacle.
Balas  A variety of spinel ruby, of a pale rose red, or inclining to orange. See Spinel.
Balaustine  The pomegranate tree (Punica granatum). The bark of the root, the rind of the fruit, and the flowers are used medicinally.
Balbutiate  Alt. of Balbucinate
Balbucinate  To stammer.
Balbuties  The defect of stammering; also, a kind of incomplete pronunciation.
Balcon  A balcony.
Balconied  Having balconies.
Balconies  of Balcony
Balcony  A platform projecting from the wall of a building, usually resting on brackets or consoles, and inclosed by a parapet; as, a balcony in front of a window. Also, a projecting gallery in places of amusement; as, the balcony in a theater.
Balcony  A projecting gallery once common at the stern of large ships.
Bald  Destitute of the natural or common covering on the head or top, as of hair, feathers, foliage, trees, etc.; as, a bald head; a bald oak.
Bald  Destitute of ornament; unadorned; bare; literal.
Bald  Undisguised.
Bald  Destitute of dignity or value; paltry; mean.
Bald  Destitute of a beard or awn; as, bald wheat.
Bald  Destitute of the natural covering.
Bald  Marked with a white spot on the head; bald-faced.
Baldachin  A rich brocade; baudekin.
Baldachin  A structure in form of a canopy, sometimes supported by columns, and sometimes suspended from the roof or projecting from the wall; generally placed over an altar; as, the baldachin in St. Peter's.
Baldachin  A portable canopy borne over shrines, etc., in procession.
Bald  The white-headed eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) of America. The young, until several years old, lack the white feathers on the head.
Balder  The most beautiful and beloved of the gods; the god of peace; the son of Odin and Freya.
Balderdash  A worthless mixture, especially of liquors.
Balderdash  Senseless jargon; ribaldry; nonsense; trash.
Balderdash  To mix or adulterate, as liquors.
Bald-faced  Having a white face or a white mark on the face, as a stag.
Baldhead  A person whose head is bald.
Baldhead  A white-headed variety of pigeon.
Baldheaded  Having a bald head.
Baldly  Nakedly; without reserve; inelegantly.
Baldness  The state or condition of being bald; as, baldness of the head; baldness of style.
Baldpate  A baldheaded person.
Baldpate  The American widgeon (Anas Americana).
Baldpate  Alt. of Baldpated
Baldpated  Destitute of hair on the head; baldheaded.
Baldrib  A piece of pork cut lower down than the sparerib, and destitute of fat.
Baldric  A broad belt, sometimes richly ornamented, worn over one shoulder, across the breast, and under the opposite arm; less properly, any belt.
Baldwin  A kind of reddish, moderately acid, winter apple.
Bale  A bundle or package of goods in a cloth cover, and corded for storage or transportation; also, a bundle of straw / hay, etc., put up compactly for transportation.
Baled  of Bale
Baling  of Bale
Bale  To make up in a bale.
Bale  See Bail, v. t., to lade.
Bale  Misery; calamity; misfortune; sorrow.
Bale  Evil; an evil, pernicious influence; something causing great injury.
Balearic  Of or pertaining to the isles of Majorca, Minorca, Ivica, etc., in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Valencia.
Baleen  Plates or blades of "whalebone," from two to twelve feet long, and sometimes a foot wide, which in certain whales (Balaenoidea) are attached side by side along the upper jaw, and form a fringelike sieve by which the food is retained in the mouth.
Balefire  A signal fire; an alarm fire.
Baleful  Full of deadly or pernicious influence; destructive.
Baleful  Full of grief or sorrow; woeful; sad.
Balefully  In a baleful manner; perniciously.
Balefulness  The quality or state of being baleful.
Balisaur  A badgerlike animal of India (Arcionyx collaris).
Balister  A crossbow.
Balistoid  Like a fish of the genus Balistes; of the family Balistidae. See Filefish.
Balistraria  A narrow opening, often cruciform, through which arrows might be discharged.
Balize  A pole or a frame raised as a sea beacon or a landmark.
Balk  A ridge of land left unplowed between furrows, or at the end of a field; a piece missed by the plow slipping aside.
Balk  A great beam, rafter, or timber; esp., the tie-beam of a house. The loft above was called "the balks."
Balk  One of the beams connecting the successive supports of a trestle bridge or bateau bridge.
Balk  A hindrance or disappointment; a check.
Balk  A sudden and obstinate stop; a failure.
Balk  A deceptive gesture of the pitcher, as if to deliver the ball.
Balked  of Balk
Balking  of Balk
Balk  To leave or make balks in.
Balk  To leave heaped up; to heap up in piles.
Balk  To omit, miss, or overlook by chance.
Balk  To miss intentionally; to avoid; to shun; to refuse; to let go by; to shirk.
Balk  To disappoint; to frustrate; to foil; to baffle; to /hwart; as, to balk expectation.
Balk  To engage in contradiction; to be in opposition.
Balk  To stop abruptly and stand still obstinately; to jib; to stop short; to swerve; as, the horse balks.
Balk  To indicate to fishermen, by shouts or signals from shore, the direction taken by the shoals of herring.
Balker  One who, or that which balks.
Balker  A person who stands on a rock or eminence to espy the shoals of herring, etc., and to give notice to the men in boats which way they pass; a conder; a huer.
Balkingly  In a manner to balk or frustrate.
Balkish  Uneven; ridgy.
Balky  Apt to balk; as, a balky horse.
Ball  Any round or roundish body or mass; a sphere or globe; as, a ball of twine; a ball of snow.
Ball  A spherical body of any substance or size used to play with, as by throwing, knocking, kicking, etc.
Ball  A general name for games in which a ball is thrown, kicked, or knocked. See Baseball, and Football.
Ball  Any solid spherical, cylindrical, or conical projectile of lead or iron, to be discharged from a firearm; as, a cannon ball; a rifle ball; -- often used collectively; as, powder and ball. Spherical balls for the smaller firearms are commonly called bullets.
Ball  A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a case filled with combustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or to produce smoke or stench; as, a fire ball; a stink ball.
Ball  A leather-covered cushion, fastened to a handle called a ballstock; -- formerly used by printers for inking the form, but now superseded by the roller.
Ball  A roundish protuberant portion of some part of the body; as, the ball of the thumb; the ball of the foot.
Ball  A large pill, a form in which medicine is commonly given to horses; a bolus.
Ball  The globe or earth.
Balled  of Ball
Balling  of Ball
Ball  To gather balls which cling to the feet, as of damp snow or clay; to gather into balls; as, the horse balls; the snow balls.
Ball  To heat in a furnace and form into balls for rolling.
Ball  To form or wind into a ball; as, to ball cotton.
Ball  A social assembly for the purpose of dancing.
Ballad  A popular kind of narrative poem, adapted for recitation or singing; as, the ballad of Chevy Chase; esp., a sentimental or romantic poem in short stanzas.
Ballad  To make or sing ballads.
Ballad  To make mention of in ballads.
Ballade  A form of French versification, sometimes imitated in English, in which three or four rhymes recur through three stanzas of eight or ten lines each, the stanzas concluding with a refrain, and the whole poem with an envoy.
Ballader  A writer of ballads.
Ballad  A seller or maker of ballads; a poetaster.
Balladry  Ballad poems; the subject or style of ballads.
Ballahoo  Alt. of Ballahou
Ballahou  A fast-sailing schooner, used in the Bermudas and West Indies.
Ballarag  To bully; to threaten.
Ballast  Any heavy substance, as stone, iron, etc., put into the hold to sink a vessel in the water to such a depth as to prevent capsizing.
Ballast  Any heavy matter put into the car of a balloon to give it steadiness.
Ballast  Gravel, broken stone, etc., laid in the bed of a railroad to make it firm and solid.
Ballast  The larger solids, as broken stone or gravel, used in making concrete.
Ballast  Fig.: That which gives, or helps to maintain, uprightness, steadiness, and security.
Ballasted  of Ballast
Ballasting  of Ballast
Ballast  To steady, as a vessel, by putting heavy substances in the hold.
Ballast  To fill in, as the bed of a railroad, with gravel, stone, etc., in order to make it firm and solid.
Ballast  To keep steady; to steady, morally.
Ballastage  A toll paid for the privilege of taking up ballast in a port or harbor.
Ballasting  That which is used for steadying anything; ballast.
Ballatry  See Balladry.
Ballet  An artistic dance performed as a theatrical entertainment, or an interlude, by a number of persons, usually women. Sometimes, a scene accompanied by pantomime and dancing.
Ballet  The company of persons who perform the ballet.
Ballet  A light part song, or madrigal, with a fa la burden or chorus, -- most common with the Elizabethan madrigal composers.
Ballet  A bearing in coats of arms, representing one or more balls, which are denominated bezants, plates, etc., according to color.
Ball-flower  An ornament resembling a ball placed in a circular flower, the petals of which form a cup round it, -- usually inserted in a hollow molding.
Ballist/  of Ballista
Ballista  An ancient military engine, in the form of a crossbow, used for hurling large missiles.
Ballister  A crossbow.
Ballistic  Of or pertaining to the ballista, or to the art of hurling stones or missile weapons by means of an engine.
Ballistic  Pertaining to projection, or to a projectile.
Ballistics  The science or art of hurling missile weapons by the use of an engine.
Ballium  See Bailey.
Balloon  A bag made of silk or other light material, and filled with hydrogen gas or heated air, so as to rise and float in the atmosphere; especially, one with a car attached for aerial navigation.
Balloon  A ball or globe on the top of a pillar, church, etc., as at St. Paul's, in London.
Balloon  A round vessel, usually with a short neck, to hold or receive whatever is distilled; a glass vessel of a spherical form.
Balloon  A bomb or shell.
Balloon  A game played with a large inflated ball.
Balloon  The outline inclosing words represented as coming from the mouth of a pictured figure.
Balloon  To take up in, or as if in, a balloon.
Balloon  To go up or voyage in a balloon.
Balloon  To expand, or puff out, like a balloon.
Ballooned  Swelled out like a balloon.
Ballooner  One who goes up in a balloon; an aeronaut.
Balloon  A fish of the genus Diodon or the genus Tetraodon, having the power of distending its body by taking air or water into its dilatable esophagus. See Globefish, and Bur fish.
Ballooning  The art or practice of managing balloons or voyaging in them.
Ballooning  The process of temporarily raising the value of a stock, as by fictitious sales.
Ballooning  A spider which has the habit of rising into the air. Many kinds ( esp. species of Lycosa) do this while young by ejecting threads of silk until the force of the wind upon them carries the spider aloft.
Balloonist  An aeronaut.
Balloonry  The art or practice of ascending in a balloon; aeronautics.
Ballot  Originally, a ball used for secret voting. Hence: Any printed or written ticket used in voting.
Ballot  The act of voting by balls or written or printed ballots or tickets; the system of voting secretly by balls or by tickets.
Ballot  The whole number of votes cast at an election, or in a given territory or electoral district.
Balloted  of Ballot
Balloting  of Ballot
Ballot  To vote or decide by ballot; as, to ballot for a candidate.
Ballot  To vote for or in opposition to.
Ballotade  A leap of a horse, as between two pillars, or upon a straight line, so that when his four feet are in the air, he shows only the shoes of his hind feet, without jerking out.
Ballotation  Voting by ballot.
Balloter  One who votes by ballot.
Ballotin  An officer who has charge of a ballot box.
Ballow  A cudgel.
Ballproof  Incapable of being penetrated by balls from firearms.
Ballroom  A room for balls or dancing.
Balm  An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa.
Balm  The resinous and aromatic exudation of certain trees or shrubs.
Balm  Any fragrant ointment.
Balm  Anything that heals or that mitigates pain.
Balm  To anoint with balm, or with anything medicinal. Hence: To soothe; to mitigate.
Balmify  To render balmy.
Balmily  In a balmy manner.
Balmoral  A long woolen petticoat, worn immediately under the dress.
Balmoral  A kind of stout walking shoe, laced in front.
Balmy  Having the qualities of balm; odoriferous; aromatic; assuaging; soothing; refreshing; mild.
Balmy  Producing balm.
Balneal  Of or pertaining to a bath.
Balneary  A bathing room.
Balneation  The act of bathing.
Balneatory  Belonging to a bath.
Balneography  A description of baths.
Balneology  A treatise on baths; the science of bathing.
Balneotherapy  The treatment of disease by baths.
Balotade  See Ballotade.
Balsa  A raft or float, used principally on the Pacific coast of South America.
Balsam  A resin containing more or less of an essential or volatile oil.
Balsam  A species of tree (Abies balsamea).
Balsam  An annual garden plant (Impatiens balsamina) with beautiful flowers; balsamine.
Balsam  Anything that heals, soothes, or restores.
Balsam  To treat or anoint with balsam; to relieve, as with balsam; to render balsamic.
Balsamation  The act of imparting balsamic properties.
Balsamation  The art or process of embalming.
Balsamic  Alt. of Balsamical
Balsamical  Having the qualities of balsam; containing, or resembling, balsam; soft; mitigative; soothing; restorative.
Balsamiferous  Producing balsam.
Balsamine  The Impatiens balsamina, or garden balsam.
Balsamous  Having the quality of balsam; containing balsam.
Balter  To stick together.
Baltic  Of or pertaining to the sea which separates Norway and Sweden from Jutland, Denmark, and Germany; situated on the Baltic Sea.
Baltimore  Alt. of Baltimore oriole
Baltimore  A common American bird (Icterus galbula), named after Lord Baltimore, because its colors (black and orange red) are like those of his coat of arms; -- called also golden robin.
Baluster  A small column or pilaster, used as a support to the rail of an open parapet, to guard the side of a staircase, or the front of a gallery. See Balustrade.
Balustered  Having balusters.
Balustrade  A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an open parapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase, or the eaves of a building.
Bam  An imposition; a cheat; a hoax.
Bam  To cheat; to wheedle.
Bambino  A child or baby; esp., a representation in art of the infant Christ wrapped in swaddling clothes.
Bambino  Babe Ruth.
Bambocciade  A representation of a grotesque scene from common or rustic life.
Bamboo  A plant of the family of grasses, and genus Bambusa, growing in tropical countries.
Bamboo  To flog with the bamboo.
Bamboozled  of Bamboozle
Bamboozling  of Bamboozle
Bamboozle  To deceive by trickery; to cajole by confusing the senses; to hoax; to mystify; to humbug.
Bamboozler  A swindler; one who deceives by trickery.
Ban  A public proclamation or edict; a public order or notice, mandatory or prohibitory; a summons by public proclamation.
Ban  A calling together of the king's (esp. the French king's) vassals for military service; also, the body of vassals thus assembled or summoned. In present usage, in France and Prussia, the most effective part of the population liable to military duty and not in the standing army.
Ban  Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in church. See Banns (the common spelling in this sense).
Ban  An interdiction, prohibition, or proscription.
Ban  A curse or anathema.
Ban  A pecuniary mulct or penalty laid upon a delinquent for offending against a ban; as, a mulct paid to a bishop by one guilty of sacrilege or other crimes.
Banned  of Ban
Banning  of Ban
Ban  To curse; to invoke evil upon.
Ban  To forbid; to interdict.
Ban  To curse; to swear.
Ban  An ancient title of the warden of the eastern marches of Hungary; now, a title of the viceroy of Croatia and Slavonia.
Banal  Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite.
Banalities  of Banality
Banality  Something commonplace, hackneyed, or trivial; the commonplace, in speech.
Banana  A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musa sapientum); also, its edible fruit. See Musa.
Banat  The territory governed by a ban.
Banc  Alt. of Bank
Bancus  Alt. of Bank
Bank  A bench; a high seat, or seat of distinction or judgment; a tribunal or court.
Banco  A bank, especially that of Venice.
Band  A fillet, strap, or any narrow ligament with which a thing is encircled, or fastened, or by which a number of things are tied, bound together, or confined; a fetter.
Band  A continuous tablet, stripe, or series of ornaments, as of carved foliage, of color, or of brickwork, etc.
Band  In Gothic architecture, the molding, or suite of moldings, which encircles the pillars and small shafts.
Band  That which serves as the means of union or connection between persons; a tie.
Band  A linen collar or ruff worn in the 16th and 17th centuries.
Band  Two strips of linen hanging from the neck in front as part of a clerical, legal, or academic dress.
Band  A narrow strip of cloth or other material on any article of dress, to bind, strengthen, ornament, or complete it.
Band  A company of persons united in any common design, especially a body of armed men.
Band  A number of musicians who play together upon portable musical instruments, especially those making a loud sound, as certain wind instruments (trumpets, clarinets, etc.), and drums, or cymbals.
Band  A space between elevated lines or ribs, as of the fruits of umbelliferous plants.
Band  A stripe, streak, or other mark transverse to the axis of the body.
Band  A belt or strap.
Band  A bond
Band  Pledge; security.
Banded  of Band
Banding  of Band
Band  To bind or tie with a band.
Band  To mark with a band.
Band  To unite in a troop, company, or confederacy.
Band  To confederate for some common purpose; to unite; to conspire together.
Band  To bandy; to drive away.
Band  imp. of Bind.
Bandage  A fillet or strip of woven material, used in dressing and binding up wounds, etc.
Bandage  Something resembling a bandage; that which is bound over or round something to cover, strengthen, or compress it; a ligature.
Bandaged  of Bandage
Bandaging  of Bandage
Bandage  To bind, dress, or cover, with a bandage; as, to bandage the eyes.
Bandala  A fabric made in Manilla from the older leaf sheaths of the abaca (Musa textilis).
Bandanna  Alt. of Bandana
Bandana  A species of silk or cotton handkerchief, having a uniformly dyed ground, usually of red or blue, with white or yellow figures of a circular, lozenge, or other simple form.
Bandana  A style of calico printing, in which white or bright spots are produced upon cloth previously dyed of a uniform red or dark color, by discharging portions of the color by chemical means, while the rest of the cloth is under pressure.
Bandbox  A light box of pasteboard or thin wood, usually cylindrical, for holding ruffs (the bands of the 17th century), collars, caps, bonnets, etc.
Bandeaux  of Bandeau
Bandeau  A narrow band or fillet; a part of a head-dress.
Bandelet  Alt. of Bandlet
Bandlet  A small band or fillet; any little band or flat molding, compassing a column, like a ring.
Bander  One banded with others.
Banderole  Alt. of Bandrol
Bandrol  A little banner, flag, or streamer.
Band  A small red fish of the genus Cepola; the ribbon fish.
Bandicoot  A species of very large rat (Mus giganteus), found in India and Ceylon. It does much injury to rice fields and gardens.
Bandicoot  A ratlike marsupial animal (genus Perameles) of several species, found in Australia and Tasmania.
Banding  A plane used for cutting out grooves and inlaying strings and bands in straight and circular work.
Bandits  of Bandit
Banditti  of Bandit
Bandit  An outlaw; a brigand.
Bandle  An Irish measure of two feet in length.
Bandlet  Same as Bandelet.
Bandmaster  The conductor of a musical band.
Bandog  A mastiff or other large and fierce dog, usually kept chained or tied up.
Bandoleer  Alt. of Bandolier
Bandolier  A broad leather belt formerly worn by soldiers over the right shoulder and across the breast under the left arm. Originally it was used for supporting the musket and twelve cases for charges, but later only as a cartridge belt.
Bandolier  One of the leather or wooden cases in which the charges of powder were carried.
Bandoline  A glutinous pomatum for the fair.
Bandon  Disposal; control; license.
Bandore  A musical stringed instrument, similar in form to a guitar; a pandore.
Bandrol  Same as Banderole.
Bandy  A carriage or cart used in India, esp. one drawn by bullocks.
Bandies  of Bandy
Bandy  A club bent at the lower part for striking a ball at play; a hockey stick.
Bandy  The game played with such a club; hockey; shinney; bandy ball.
Bandied  of Bandy
Bandying  of Bandy
Bandy  To beat to and fro, as a ball in playing at bandy.
Bandy  To give and receive reciprocally; to exchange.
Bandy  To toss about, as from man to man; to agitate.
Bandy  To content, as at some game in which each strives to drive the ball his own way.
Bandy  Bent; crooked; curved laterally, esp. with the convex side outward; as, a bandy leg.
Bandy-legged  Having crooked legs.
Bane  That which destroys life, esp. poison of a deadly quality.
Bane  Destruction; death.
Bane  Any cause of ruin, or lasting injury; harm; woe.
Bane  A disease in sheep, commonly termed the rot.
Bane  To be the bane of; to ruin.
Baneberry  A genus (Actaea) of plants, of the order Ranunculaceae, native in the north temperate zone. The red or white berries are poisonous.
Baneful  Having poisonous qualities; deadly; destructive; injurious; noxious; pernicious.
Banewort  Deadly nightshade.
Banged  of Bang
Banging  of Bang
Bang  To beat, as with a club or cudgel; to treat with violence; to handle roughly.
Bang  To beat or thump, or to cause ( something) to hit or strike against another object, in such a way as to make a loud noise; as, to bang a drum or a piano; to bang a door (against the doorpost or casing) in shutting it.
Bang  To make a loud noise, as if with a blow or succession of blows; as, the window blind banged and waked me; he was banging on the piano.
Bang  A blow as with a club; a heavy blow.
Bang  The sound produced by a sudden concussion.
Bang  To cut squarely across, as the tail of a hors, or the forelock of human beings; to cut (the hair).
Bang  The short, front hair combed down over the forehead, esp. when cut squarely across; a false front of hair similarly worn.
Bang  Alt. of Bangue
Bangue  See Bhang.
Banging  Huge; great in size.
Bangle  To waste by little and little; to fritter away.
Bangle  An ornamental circlet, of glass, gold, silver, or other material, worn by women in India and Africa, and in some other countries, upon the wrist or ankle; a ring bracelet.
Banian  A Hindoo trader, merchant, cashier, or money changer.
Banian  A man's loose gown, like that worn by the Banians.
Banian  The Indian fig. See Banyan.
Banished  of Banish
Banishing  of Banish
Banish  To condemn to exile, or compel to leave one's country, by authority of the ruling power.
Banish  To drive out, as from a home or familiar place; -- used with from and out of.
Banish  To drive away; to compel to depart; to dispel.
Banisher  One who banishes.
Banishment  The act of banishing, or the state of being banished.
Banister  A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like the guitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and is played with the fingers and hands.
Bank  A mound, pile, or ridge of earth, raised above the surrounding level; hence, anything shaped like a mound or ridge of earth; as, a bank of clouds; a bank of snow.
Bank  A steep acclivity, as the slope of a hill, or the side of a ravine.
Bank  The margin of a watercourse; the rising ground bordering a lake, river, or sea, or forming the edge of a cutting, or other hollow.
Bank  An elevation, or rising ground, under the sea; a shoal, shelf, or shallow; as, the banks of Newfoundland.
Bank  The face of the coal at which miners are working.
Bank  A deposit of ore or coal, worked by excavations above water level.
Bank  The ground at the top of a shaft; as, ores are brought to bank.
Banked  of Bank
Banking  of Bank
Bank  To raise a mound or dike about; to inclose, defend, or fortify with a bank; to embank.
Bank  To heap or pile up; as, to bank sand.
Bank  To pass by the banks of.
Bank  A bench, as for rowers in a galley; also, a tier of oars.
Bank  The bench or seat upon which the judges sit.
Bank  The regular term of a court of law, or the full court sitting to hear arguments upon questions of law, as distinguished from a sitting at Nisi Prius, or a court held for jury trials. See Banc.
Bank  A sort of table used by printers.
Bank  A bench, or row of keys belonging to a keyboard, as in an organ.
Bank  An establishment for the custody, loan, exchange, or issue, of money, and for facilitating the transmission of funds by drafts or bills of exchange; an institution incorporated for performing one or more of such functions, or the stockholders (or their representatives, the directors), acting in their corporate capacity.
Bank  The building or office used for banking purposes.
Bank  A fund from deposits or contributions, to be used in transacting business; a joint stock or capital.
Bank  The sum of money or the checks which the dealer or banker has as a fund, from which to draw his stakes and pay his losses.
Bank  In certain games, as dominos, a fund of pieces from which the players are allowed to draw.
Bank  To deposit in a bank.
Bank  To keep a bank; to carry on the business of a banker.
Bank  To deposit money in a bank; to have an account with a banker.
Bankable  Receivable at a bank.
Bank  In America (and formerly in England), a promissory note of a bank payable to the bearer on demand, and used as currency; a bank note.
Bank  In England, a note, or a bill of exchange, of a bank, payable to order, and usually at some future specified time. Such bills are negotiable, but form, in the strict sense of the term, no part of the currency.
Bank  A book kept by a depositor, in which an officer of a bank enters the debits and credits of the depositor's account with the bank.
Banker  One who conducts the business of banking; one who, individually, or as a member of a company, keeps an establishment for the deposit or loan of money, or for traffic in money, bills of exchange, etc.
Banker  A money changer.
Banker  The dealer, or one who keeps the bank in a gambling house.
Banker  A vessel employed in the cod fishery on the banks of Newfoundland.
Banker  A ditcher; a drain digger.
Banker  The stone bench on which masons cut or square their work.
Bankeress  A female banker.
Banking  The business of a bank or of a banker.
Bank  A promissory note issued by a bank or banking company, payable to bearer on demand.
Bank  Formerly, a promissory note made by a banker, or banking company, payable to a specified person at a fixed date; a bank bill. See Bank bill, 2.
Bank  A promissory note payable at a bank.
Bankrupt  A trader who secretes himself, or does certain other acts tending to defraud his creditors.
Bankrupt  A trader who becomes unable to pay his debts; an insolvent trader; popularly, any person who is unable to pay his debts; an insolvent person.
Bankrupt  A person who, in accordance with the terms of a law relating to bankruptcy, has been judicially declared to be unable to meet his liabilities.
Bankrupt  Being a bankrupt or in a condition of bankruptcy; unable to pay, or legally discharged from paying, one's debts; as, a bankrupt merchant.
Bankrupt  Depleted of money; not having the means of meeting pecuniary liabilities; as, a bankrupt treasury.
Bankrupt  Relating to bankrupts and bankruptcy.
Bankrupt  Destitute of, or wholly wanting (something once possessed, or something one should possess).
Bankrupted  of Bankrupt
Bankrupting  of Bankrupt
Bankrupt  To make bankrupt; to bring financial ruin upon; to impoverish.
Bankruptcies  of Bankruptcy
Bankruptcy  The state of being actually or legally bankrupt.
Bankruptcy  The act or process of becoming a bankrupt.
Bankruptcy  Complete loss; -- followed by of.
Bankside  The slope of a bank, especially of the bank of a steam.
Bank-sided  Having sides inclining inwards, as a ship; -- opposed to wall-sided.
Bank  See under 1st Bank, n.
Banlieue  The territory without the walls, but within the legal limits, of a town or city.
Banner  A kind of flag attached to a spear or pike by a crosspiece, and used by a chief as his standard in battle.
Banner  A large piece of silk or other cloth, with a device or motto, extended on a crosspiece, and borne in a procession, or suspended in some conspicuous place.
Banner  Any flag or standard; as, the star-spangled banner.
Bannered  Furnished with, or bearing, banners.
Banneret  Originally, a knight who led his vassals into the field under his own banner; -- commonly used as a title of rank.
Banneret  A title of rank, conferred for heroic deeds, and hence, an order of knighthood; also, the person bearing such title or rank.
Banneret  A civil officer in some Swiss cantons.
Banneret  A small banner.
Bannerol  A banderole; esp. a banner displayed at a funeral procession and set over the tomb. See Banderole.
Bannition  The act of expulsion.
Bannock  A kind of cake or bread, in shape flat and roundish, commonly made of oatmeal or barley meal and baked on an iron plate, or griddle; -- used in Scotland and the northern counties of England.
Banns  Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in a church, or other place prescribed by law, in order that any person may object, if he knows of just cause why the marriage should not take place.
Banquet  A feast; a sumptuous entertainment of eating and drinking; often, a complimentary or ceremonious feast, followed by speeches.
Banquet  A dessert; a course of sweetmeats; a sweetmeat or sweetmeats.
Banqueted  of Banquet
Banqueting  of Banquet
Banquet  To treat with a banquet or sumptuous entertainment of food; to feast.
Banquet  To regale one's self with good eating and drinking; to feast.
Banquet  To partake of a dessert after a feast.
Banquetter  One who banquets; one who feasts or makes feasts.
Banquette  A raised way or foot bank, running along the inside of a parapet, on which musketeers stand to fire upon the enemy.
Banquette  A narrow window seat; a raised shelf at the back or the top of a buffet or dresser.
Banshee  Alt. of Banshie
Banshie  A supernatural being supposed by the Irish and Scotch peasantry to warn a family of the speedy death of one of its members, by wailing or singing in a mournful voice under the windows of the house.
Banstickle  A small fish, the three-spined stickleback.
Bantam  A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probably brought from Bantam, a district of Java.
Bantam  Carved and painted work in imitation of Japan ware.
Banteng  The wild ox of Java (Bibos Banteng).
Bantered  of Banter
Bantering  of Banter
Banter  To address playful good-natured ridicule to, -- the person addressed, or something pertaining to him, being the subject of the jesting; to rally; as, he bantered me about my credulity.
Banter  To jest about; to ridicule in speaking of, as some trait, habit, characteristic, and the like.
Banter  To delude or trick, -- esp. by way of jest.
Banter  To challenge or defy to a match.
Banter  The act of bantering; joking or jesting; humorous or good-humored raillery; pleasantry.
Banterer  One who banters or rallies.
Bantingism  A method of reducing corpulence by avoiding food containing much farinaceous, saccharine, or oily matter; -- so called from William Banting of London.
Bantling  A young or small child; an infant. [Slightly contemptuous or depreciatory.]
Banxring  An East Indian insectivorous mammal of the genus Tupaia.
Banyan  A tree of the same genus as the common fig, and called the Indian fig (Ficus Indica), whose branches send shoots to the ground, which take root and become additional trunks, until it may be the tree covers some acres of ground and is able to shelter thousands of men.
Baobab  A gigantic African tree (Adansonia digitata), also naturalized in India. See Adansonia.
Baphomet  An idol or symbolical figure which the Templars were accused of using in their mysterious rites.
Baptism  The act of baptizing; the application of water to a person, as a sacrament or religious ceremony, by which he is initiated into the visible church of Christ. This is performed by immersion, sprinkling, or pouring.
Baptismal  Pertaining to baptism; as, baptismal vows.
Baptismally  In a baptismal manner.
Baptist  One who administers baptism; -- specifically applied to John, the forerunner of Christ.
Baptist  One of a denomination of Christians who deny the validity of infant baptism and of sprinkling, and maintain that baptism should be administered to believers alone, and should be by immersion. See Anabaptist.
Baptisteries  of Baptistry
Baptistery  Alt. of Baptistry
Baptistry  In early times, a separate building, usually polygonal, used for baptismal services. Small churches were often changed into baptisteries when larger churches were built near.
Baptistry  A part of a church containing a font and used for baptismal services.
Baptistic  Of or for baptism; baptismal.
Baptistical  Baptistic.
Baptizable  Capable of being baptized; fit to be baptized.
Baptization  Baptism.
Baptized  of Baptize
Baptizing  of Baptize
Baptize  To administer the sacrament of baptism to.
Baptize  To christen ( because a name is given to infants at their baptism); to give a name to; to name.
Baptize  To sanctify; to consecrate.
Baptizement  The act of baptizing.
Baptizer  One who baptizes.
Bar  A piece of wood, metal, or other material, long in proportion to its breadth or thickness, used as a lever and for various other purposes, but especially for a hindrance, obstruction, or fastening; as, the bars of a fence or gate; the bar of a door.
Bar  An indefinite quantity of some substance, so shaped as to be long in proportion to its breadth and thickness; as, a bar of gold or of lead; a bar of soap.
Bar  Anything which obstructs, hinders, or prevents; an obstruction; a barrier.
Bar  A bank of sand, gravel, or other matter, esp. at the mouth of a river or harbor, obstructing navigation.
Bar  Any railing that divides a room, or office, or hall of assembly, in order to reserve a space for those having special privileges; as, the bar of the House of Commons.
Bar  The railing that incloses the place which counsel occupy in courts of justice. Hence, the phrase at the bar of the court signifies in open court.
Bar  The place in court where prisoners are stationed for arraignment, trial, or sentence.
Bar  The whole body of lawyers licensed in a court or district; the legal profession.
Bar  A special plea constituting a sufficient answer to plaintiff's action.
Bar  Any tribunal; as, the bar of public opinion; the bar of God.
Bar  A barrier or counter, over which liquors and food are passed to customers; hence, the portion of the room behind the counter where liquors for sale are kept.
Bar  An ordinary, like a fess but narrower, occupying only one fifth part of the field.
Bar  A broad shaft, or band, or stripe; as, a bar of light; a bar of color.
Bar  A vertical line across the staff. Bars divide the staff into spaces which represent measures, and are themselves called measures.
Bar  The space between the tusks and grinders in the upper jaw of a horse, in which the bit is placed.
Bar  The part of the crust of a horse's hoof which is bent inwards towards the frog at the heel on each side, and extends into the center of the sole.
Bar  A drilling or tamping rod.
Bar  A vein or dike crossing a lode.
Caaba  The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all Mohammedans must pray.
Caas  Case.
Cab  A kind of close carriage with two or four wheels, usually a public vehicle.
Cab  The covered part of a locomotive, in which the engineer has his station.
Cab  A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37) pints.
Cabal  Tradition; occult doctrine. See Cabala
Cabal  A secret.
Cabal  A number of persons united in some close design, usually to promote their private views and interests in church or state by intrigue; a secret association composed of a few designing persons; a junto.
Cabal  The secret artifices or machinations of a few persons united in a close design; intrigue.
Caballed  of Cabal
Caballing  of Cabal
Cabal  To unite in a small party to promote private views and interests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot.
Cabala  A kind of occult theosophy or traditional interpretation of the Scriptures among Jewish rabbis and certain mediaeval Christians, which treats of the nature of god and the mystery of human existence. It assumes that every letter, word, number, and accent of Scripture contains a hidden sense; and it teaches the methods of interpretation for ascertaining these occult meanings. The cabalists pretend even to foretell events by this means.
Cabala  Secret science in general; mystic art; mystery.
Cabalism  The secret science of the cabalists.
Cabalism  A superstitious devotion to the mysteries of the religion which one professes.
Cabalist  One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewish traditions.
Cabalistic  Alt. of Cabalistical
Cabalistical  Of or pertaining to the cabala; containing or conveying an occult meaning; mystic.
Cabalistically  In a cabalistic manner.
Cabalize  To use cabalistic language.
Caballer  One who cabals.
Caballine  Of or pertaining to a horse.
Caballine  Caballine aloes.
Cabaret  A tavern; a house where liquors are retailed.
Cabaret  a type of restaurant where liquor and dinner is served, and entertainment is provided, as by musicians, dancers, or comedians, and providing space for dancing by the patrons; -- similar to a nightclub. The term cabaret is often used in the names of such an establishment.
Cabaret  the type of entertainment provided in a cabaret{2}.
Cabas  A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; hence, a lady's flat workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba.
Cabassou  A species of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus and X. hispidus); the tatouay.
Cabbage  An esculent vegetable of many varieties, derived from the wild Brassica oleracea of Europe. The common cabbage has a compact head of leaves. The cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, etc., are sometimes classed as cabbages.
Cabbage  The terminal bud of certain palm trees, used, like, cabbage, for food. See Cabbage tree, below.
Cabbage  The cabbage palmetto. See below.
Cabbage  To form a head like that the cabbage; as, to make lettuce cabbage.
Cabbaged  of Cabbage
Cabbaging  of Cabbage
Cabbage  To purloin or embezzle, as the pieces of cloth remaining after cutting out a garment; to pilfer.
Cabbage  Cloth or clippings cabbaged or purloined by one who cuts out garments.
Cabbler  One who works at cabbling.
Cabbling  The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wrought iron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated and wrought into bar iron.
Cabeca  Alt. of Cabesse
Cabesse  The finest kind of silk received from India.
Caber  A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of strength.
Cabezon  A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to the sculpin.
Cabiai  The capybara. See Capybara.
Cabin  A cottage or small house; a hut.
Cabin  A small room; an inclosed place.
Cabin  A room in ship for officers or passengers.
Cabined  of Cabin
Cabining  of Cabin
Cabin  To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge.
Cabin  To confine in, or as in, a cabin.
Cabinet  A hut; a cottage; a small house.
Cabinet  A small room, or retired apartment; a closet.
Cabinet  A private room in which consultations are held.
Cabinet  The advisory council of the chief executive officer of a nation; a cabinet council.
Cabinet  A set of drawers or a cupboard intended to contain articles of value. Hence:
Cabinet  A decorative piece of furniture, whether open like an etagere or closed with doors. See Etagere.
Cabinet  Any building or room set apart for the safe keeping and exhibition of works of art, etc.; also, the collection itself.
Cabinet  Suitable for a cabinet; small.
Cabineting  of Cabinet
Cabinet  To inclose
Cabinetmaker  One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choice articles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc.
Cabinetmaking  The art or occupation of making the finer articles of household furniture.
Cabinetwork  The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniture requiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture.
Cabirean  One of the Cabiri.
Cabbiri  Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece; -- also called sons of Hephaestus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the art of working metals.
Cabirian  Same as Cabiric.
Cabiric  Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship.
Cable  A large, strong rope or chain, of considerable length, used to retain a vessel at anchor, and for other purposes. It is made of hemp, of steel wire, or of iron links.
Cable  A rope of steel wire, or copper wire, usually covered with some protecting or insulating substance; as, the cable of a suspension bridge; a telegraphic cable.
Cable  A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex, rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; -- called also cable molding.
Cable  To fasten with a cable.
Cable  To ornament with cabling. See Cabling.
Cabled  of Cable
Cabling  of Cable
Cable  To telegraph by a submarine cable
Cabled  Fastened with, or attached to, a cable or rope.
Cabled  Adorned with cabling.
Cablegram  A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.
Cablelaid  Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twisted together to form a cable.
Cablelaid  Twisted after the manner of a cable; as, a cable-laid gold chain.
Cablet  A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.
Cabling  The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilaster with reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollows of the fluting. These are limited in length to about one third of the height of the shaft.
Cabmen  of Cabman
Cabman  The driver of a cab.
Cabob  A small piece of mutton or other meat roasted on a skewer; -- so called in Turkey and Persia.
Cabob  A leg of mutton roasted, stuffed with white herrings and sweet herbs.
Cabob  To roast, as a cabob.
Caboched  Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of the head of a beast in armorial bearing.
Caboodle  The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usually in the phrase the whole caboodle.
Caboose  A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called the galley.
Caboose  A car used on freight or construction trains for brakemen, workmen, etc.; a tool car.
Cabotage  Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage.
Cabree  The pronghorn antelope.
Cabrerite  An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt, and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain.
Cabrilla  A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genus Serranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coast of California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rock bass and kelp salmon.
Cabriole  A curvet; a leap. See Capriole.
Cabriolet  A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top.
Cabrit  Same as Cabree.
Caburn  A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize tackles, etc.
Cacaemia  Alt. of Cachaemia
Cachaemia  A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood.
Cacaine  The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine.
Cacajao  A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (/ Brachyurus) melanocephala).
Cacao  A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America and the West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seeds about the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and broma are prepared.
Cachalot  The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top of its head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, after death, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance called spermaceti. See Sperm whale.
Cache  A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry.
Cachectic  Alt. of Cachectical
Cachectical  Having, or pertaining to, cachexia; as, cachectic remedies; cachectical blood.
Cachepot  An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal, paper, etc.
Cachet  A seal, as of a letter.
Cachexia  Alt. of Cachexy
Cachexy  A condition of ill health and impairment of nutrition due to impoverishment of the blood, esp. when caused by a specific morbid process (as cancer or tubercle).
Cachinnation  Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hysterical or maniacal affections.
Cachinnatory  Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter.
Cachiri  A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of the manioc, and resembling perry.
Cacholong  An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also, a similar variety of opal.
Cachou  A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the breath.
Cachucha  An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembling the bolero.
Cachunde  A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and other ingredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as a stomachic and antispasmodic.
Cacique  See Cazique.
Cack  To ease the body by stool; to go to stool.
Cackerel  The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish considered poisonous by the ancients. See Mendole.
Cackled  of Cackle
Cackling  of Cackle
Cackle  To make a sharp, broken noise or cry, as a hen or goose does.
Cackle  To laugh with a broken noise, like the cackling of a hen or a goose; to giggle.
Cackle  To talk in a silly manner; to prattle.
Cackle  The sharp broken noise made by a goose or by a hen that has laid an egg.
Cackle  Idle talk; silly prattle.
Cackler  A fowl that cackles.
Cackler  One who prattles, or tells tales; a tattler.
Cackling  The broken noise of a goose or a hen.
Cacochymia  Alt. of Cacochymy
Cacochymy  A vitiated state of the humors, or fluids, of the body, especially of the blood.
Cacochymic  Alt. of Cacochymical
Cacochymical  Having the fluids of the body vitiated, especially the blood.
Cacodemon  An evil spirit; a devil or demon.
Cacodemon  The nightmare.
Cacodoxical  Heretical.
Cacodoxy  Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy.
Cacodyl  Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4, spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeable odor. It is the type of a series of compounds analogous to the nitrogen compounds called hydrazines.
Cacodylic  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl.
Cacoethes  A bad custom or habit; an insatiable desire; as, cacoethes scribendi, "The itch for writing".
Cacoethes  A bad quality or disposition in a disease; an incurable ulcer.
Cacogastric  Troubled with bad digestion.
Cacographic  Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly written or spelled.
Cacography  Incorrect or bad writing or spelling.
Cacolet  A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back or pack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainous districts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of an army.
Cacology  Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words.
Cacomixle  Alt. of Cacomixl
Cacomixtle  Alt. of Cacomixl
Cacomixl  A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of a cat, related to the raccoons. It inhabits Mexico, Texas, and California.
Cacoon  One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada scandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.
Cacophonic  Alt. of Cacophonious
Cacophonical  Alt. of Cacophonious
Cacophonous  Alt. of Cacophonious
Cacophonious  Harsh-sounding.
Cacophonies  of Cacophony
Cacophony  An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to the concurrence of harsh letters or syllables.
Cacophony  A combination of discordant sounds.
Cacophony  An unhealthy state of the voice.
Cacotechny  A corruption or corrupt state of art.
Cacoxene  Alt. of Cacoxenite
Cacoxenite  A hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts. The phosphorus seriously injures it as an iron ore.
Cactaceous  Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which the prickly pear is a common example.
Cactuses  of Cactus
Cacti  of Cactus
Cactus  Any plant of the order Cactacae, as the prickly pear and the night-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stems and branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostly natives of the warmer parts of America.
Cacuminal  Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied to certain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters.
Cacuminate  To make sharp or pointed.
Cad  A person who stands at the door of an omnibus to open and shut it, and to receive fares; an idle hanger-on about innyards.
Cad  A lowbred, presuming person; a mean, vulgar fellow.
Cadastral  Of or pertaining to landed property.
Cadastre  Alt. of Cadaster
Cadaster  An official statement of the quantity and value of real estate for the purpose of apportioning the taxes payable on such property.
Cadaver  A dead human body; a corpse.
Cadaveric  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changes produced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity.
Cadaverous  Having the appearance or color of a dead human body; pale; ghastly; as, a cadaverous look.
Cadaverous  Of or pertaining to, or having the qualities of, a dead body.
Cadbait  See Caddice.
Caddice  Alt. of Caddis
Caddis  The larva of a caddice fly. These larvae generally live in cylindrical cases, open at each end, and covered externally with pieces of broken shells, gravel, bits of wood, etc. They are a favorite bait with anglers. Called also caddice worm, or caddis worm.
Caddis  A kind of worsted lace or ribbon.
Caddish  Like a cad; lowbred and presuming.
Caddow  A jackdaw.
Caddies  of Caddy
Caddy  A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in.
Cade  Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.
Cade  To bring up or nourish by hand, or with tenderness; to coddle; to tame.
Cade  A barrel or cask, as of fish.
Cade  A species of juniper (Juniperus Oxycedrus) of Mediterranean countries.
Cadence  The act or state of declining or sinking.
Cadence  A fall of the voice in reading or speaking, especially at the end of a sentence.
Cadence  A rhythmical modulation of the voice or of any sound; as, music of bells in cadence sweet.
Cadence  Rhythmical flow of language, in prose or verse.
Cadence  See Cadency.
Cadence  Harmony and proportion in motions, as of a well-managed horse.
Cadence  A uniform time and place in marching.
Cadence  The close or fall of a strain; the point of rest, commonly reached by the immediate succession of the tonic to the dominant chord.
Cadence  A cadenza, or closing embellishment; a pause before the end of a strain, which the performer may fill with a flight of fancy.
Cadence  To regulate by musical measure.
Cadency  Descent of related families; distinction between the members of a family according to their ages.
Cadene  A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.
Cadent  Falling.
Cadenza  A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of a piece, commonly just before the final cadence.
Cader  See Cadre.
Cadet  The younger of two brothers; a younger brother or son; the youngest son.
Cadet  A gentleman who carries arms in a regiment, as a volunteer, with a view of acquiring military skill and obtaining a commission.
Cadet  A young man in training for military or naval service; esp. a pupil in a military or naval school, as at West Point, Annapolis, or Woolwich.
Cadetship  The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get a cadetship.
Cadew  Alt. of Cadeworm
Cadeworm  A caddice. See Caddice.
Cadged  of Cadge
Cadging  of Cadge
Cadge  To carry, as a burden.
Cadge  To hawk or peddle, as fish, poultry, etc.
Cadge  To intrude or live on another meanly; to beg.
Cadge  A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale.
Cadger  A packman or itinerant huckster.
Cadger  One who gets his living by trickery or begging.
Cadger  One who carries hawks on a cadge.
Cadgy  Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also, wanton.
Cadi  An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usually the judge of a town or village.
Cadie  Alt. of Caddie
Caddie  A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger.
Cadilesker  A chief judge in the Turkish empire, so named originally because his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who are now tried only by their own officers.
Cadillac  A large pear, shaped like a flattened top, used chiefly for cooking.
Cadis  A kind of coarse serge.
Cadmean  Of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, who was said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters of the alphabet -- /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /. These are called Cadmean letters.
Cadmia  An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces where zinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine.
Cadmian  See Cadmean.
Cadmic  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmic sulphide.
Cadmium  A comparatively rare element related to zinc, and occurring in some zinc ores. It is a white metal, both ductile and malleable. Symbol Cd. Atomic weight 111.8. It was discovered by Stromeyer in 1817, who named it from its association with zinc or zinc ore.
Cadrans  An instrument with a graduated disk by means of which the angles of gems are measured in the process of cutting and polishing.
Cadre  The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff.
Caducary  Relating to escheat, forfeiture, or confiscation.
Caducean  Of or belonging to Mercury's caduceus, or wand.
Caduceus  The official staff or wand of Hermes or Mercury, the messenger of the gods. It was originally said to be a herald's staff of olive wood, but was afterwards fabled to have two serpents coiled about it, and two wings at the top.
Caducibranchiate  With temporary gills: -- applied to those Amphibia in which the gills do not remain in adult life.
Caducity  Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility.
Caducous  Dropping off or disappearing early, as the calyx of a poppy, or the gills of a tadpole.
Caduke  Perishable; frail; transitory.
Cady  See Cadie.
Caeca  See Caecum.
Caecal  Of or pertaining to the caecum, or blind gut.
Caecal  Having the form of a caecum, or bag with one opening; baglike; as, the caecal extremity of a duct.
Caecias  A wind from the northeast.
Caecilian  A limbless amphibian belonging to the order Caeciliae or Ophimorpha. See Ophiomorpha.
Caecums  of Caecum
Caeca  of Caecum
Caecum  A cavity open at one end, as the blind end of a canal or duct.
Caecum  The blind part of the large intestine beyond the entrance of the small intestine; -- called also the blind gut.
Caenozoic  See Cenozoic.
Caen  A cream-colored limestone for building, found near Caen, France.
Caesar  A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Caesar. Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerful ruler. See Kaiser, Kesar.
Caesarean  Alt. of Caesarian
Caesarian  Of or pertaining to Caesar or the Caesars; imperial.
Caesarism  A system of government in which unrestricted power is exercised by a single person, to whom, as Caesar or emperor, it has been committed by the popular will; imperialism; also, advocacy or support of such a system of government.
Caesious  Of the color of lavender; pale blue with a slight mixture of gray.
Caesium  A rare alkaline metal found in mineral water; -- so called from the two characteristic blue lines in its spectrum. It was the first element discovered by spectrum analysis, and is the most strongly basic and electro-positive substance known. Symbol Cs. Atomic weight 132.6.
Caespitose  Same as Cespitose.
Caesuras  of Caesura
Caesurae  of Caesura
Caesura  A metrical break in a verse, occurring in the middle of a foot and commonly near the middle of the verse; a sense pause in the middle of a foot. Also, a long syllable on which the caesural accent rests, or which is used as a foot.
Caesural  Of or pertaining to a caesura.
Cafe  A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or restaurant where coffee and liquors are served.
Cafenet  Alt. of Cafeneh
Cafeneh  A humble inn or house of rest for travelers, where coffee is sold.
Caffeic  Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee.
Caffeine  A white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained from coffee. It is identical with the alkaloid theine from tea leaves, and with guaranine from guarana.
Caffetannic  Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee.
Caffila  See Cafila.
Caffre  See Kaffir.
Cafila  Alt. of Cafileh
Cafileh  A caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government caravan; a string of pack horses.
Caftan  A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown with sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by a belt or sash.
Caftan  To clothe with a caftan.
Cag  See Keg.
Cage  A box or inclosure, wholly or partly of openwork, in wood or metal, used for confining birds or other animals.
Cage  A place of confinement for malefactors
Cage  An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; as, the cage of a staircase.
Cage  A skeleton frame to limit the motion of a loose piece, as a ball valve.
Cage  A wirework strainer, used in connection with pumps and pipes.
Cage  The box, bucket, or inclosed platform of a lift or elevator; a cagelike structure moving in a shaft.
Cage  The drum on which the rope is wound in a hoisting whim.
Cage  The catcher's wire mask.
Caged  of Cage
Caging  of Cage
Cage  To confine in, or as in, a cage; to shut up or confine.
Caged  Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison.
Cageling  A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird.
Cagit  A kind of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in the Philippine Islands.
Cagmag  A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind.
Cagot  One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until 1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs). They are supposed to be a remnant of the Visigoths.
Cahier  A number of sheets of paper put loosely together; esp. one of the successive portions of a work printed in numbers.
Cahier  A memorial of a body; a report of legislative proceedings, etc.
Cahincic  Pertaining to, or derived from, cahinca, the native name of a species of Brazilian Chiococca, perhaps C. racemosa; as, cahincic acid.
Cahoot  Partnership; as, to go in cahoot with a person.
Caimacam  The governor of a sanjak or district in Turkey.
Caiman  See Cayman.
Cainozoic  See Cenozic.
Caique  A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a Levantine vessel of larger size.
Caird  A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar.
Cairn  A rounded or conical heap of stones erected by early inhabitants of the British Isles, apparently as a sepulchral monument.
Cairn  A pile of stones heaped up as a landmark, or to arrest attention, as in surveying, or in leaving traces of an exploring party, etc.
Cairngormstone  A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, or crystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, in Scotland.
Caisson  A chest to hold ammunition.
Caisson  A four-wheeled carriage for conveying ammunition, consisting of two parts, a body and a limber. In light field batteries there is one caisson to each piece, having two ammunition boxes on the body, and one on the limber.
Caisson  A chest filled with explosive materials, to be laid in the way of an enemy and exploded on his approach.
Caisson  A water-tight box, of timber or iron within which work is carried on in building foundations or structures below the water level.
Caisson  A hollow floating box, usually of iron, which serves to close the entrances of docks and basins.
Caisson  A structure, usually with an air chamber, placed beneath a vessel to lift or float it.
Caisson  A sunk panel of ceilings or soffits.
Caitiff  Captive; wretched; unfortunate.
Caitiff  Base; wicked and mean; cowardly; despicable.
Caitiff  A captive; a prisoner.
Caitiff  A wretched or unfortunate man.
Caitiff  A mean, despicable person; one whose character meanness and wickedness meet.
Cajeput  See Cajuput.
Cajoled  of Cajole
Cajoling  of Cajole
Cajole  To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.
Cajolement  The act of cajoling; the state of being cajoled; cajolery.
Cajoler  A flatterer; a wheedler.
Cajoleries  of Cajolery
Cajolery  A wheedling to delude; words used in cajoling; flattery.
Cajuput  A highly stimulating volatile inflammable oil, distilled from the leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi, etc.) It is greenish in color and has a camphoraceous odor and pungent taste.
Cajuputene  A colorless or greenish oil extracted from cajuput.
Cake  A small mass of dough baked; especially, a thin loaf from unleavened dough; as, an oatmeal cake; johnnycake.
Cake  A sweetened composition of flour and other ingredients, leavened or unleavened, baked in a loaf or mass of any size or shape.
Cake  A thin wafer-shaped mass of fried batter; a griddlecake or pancake; as buckwheat cakes.
Cake  A mass of matter concreted, congealed, or molded into a solid mass of any form, esp. into a form rather flat than high; as, a cake of soap; an ague cake.
Cake  To form into a cake, or mass.
Caked  of Cake
Caking  of Cake
Cake  To concrete or consolidate into a hard mass, as dough in an oven; to coagulate.
Cake  To cackle as a goose.
Caking  See Coal.
Cal  Wolfram, an ore of tungsten.
Calabar  A district on the west coast of Africa.
Calabarine  An alkaloid resembling physostigmine and occurring with it in the calabar bean.
Calabash  The common gourd (plant or fruit).
Calabash  The fruit of the calabash tree.
Calabash  A water dipper, bottle, bascket, or other utensil, made from the dry shell of a calabash or gourd.
Calaboose  A prison; a jail.
Calade  A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse is made to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches.
Caladium  A genus of aroideous plants, of which some species are cultivated for their immense leaves (which are often curiously blotched with white and red), and others (in Polynesia) for food.
Calaite  A mineral. See Turquoise.
Calamanco  A glossy woolen stuff, plain, striped, or checked.
Calamander  A valuable furniture wood from India and Ceylon, of a hazel-brown color, with black stripes, very hard in texture. It is a species of ebony, and is obtained from the Diospyros quaesita. Called also Coromandel wood.
Calamar  Alt. of Calamary
Calamary  A cephalopod, belonging to the genus Loligo and related genera. There are many species. They have a sack of inklike fluid which they discharge from the siphon tube, when pursued or alarmed, in order to confuse their enemies. Their shell is a thin horny plate, within the flesh of the back, shaped very much like a quill pen. In America they are called squids. See Squid.
Calambac  A fragrant wood; agalloch.
Calambour  A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottled color, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac; -- used by cabinetmakers.
Calamiferous  Producing reeds; reedy.
Calamine  A mineral, the hydrous silicate of zinc.
Calamint  A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family, esp. the C. Nepeta and C. Acinos, which are called also basil thyme.
Calamist  One who plays upon a reed or pipe.
Calamistrate  To curl or friz, as the hair.
Calamistration  The act or process of curling the hair.
Calamistrum  A comblike structure on the metatarsus of the hind legs of certain spiders (Ciniflonidae), used to curl certain fibers in the construction of their webs.
Calamite  A fossil plant of the coal formation, having the general form of plants of the modern Equiseta (the Horsetail or Scouring Rush family) but sometimes attaining the height of trees, and having the stem more or less woody within. See Acrogen, and Asterophyllite.
Calamitous  Suffering calamity; wretched; miserable.
Calamitous  Producing, or attended with distress and misery; making wretched; wretched; unhappy.
Calamities  of Calamity
Calamity  Any great misfortune or cause of misery; -- generally applied to events or disasters which produce extensive evil, either to communities or individuals.
Calamity  A state or time of distress or misfortune; misery.
Calami  of Calamus
Calamus  The indian cane, a plant of the Palm family. It furnishes the common rattan. See Rattan, and Dragon's blood.
Calamus  A species of Acorus (A. calamus), commonly called calamus, or sweet flag. The root has a pungent, aromatic taste, and is used in medicine as a stomachic; the leaves have an aromatic odor, and were formerly used instead of rushes to strew on floors.
Calamus  The horny basal portion of a feather; the barrel or quill.
Calando  Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness.
Calash  A light carriage with low wheels, having a top or hood that can be raised or lowered, seats for inside, a separate seat for the driver, and often a movable front, so that it can be used as either an open or a close carriage.
Calash  In Canada, a two-wheeled, one-seated vehicle, with a calash top, and the driver's seat elevated in front.
Calash  A hood or top of a carriage which can be thrown back at pleasure.
Calash  A hood, formerly worn by ladies, which could be drawn forward or thrown back like the top of a carriage.
Calaverite  A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; a telluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California.
Calcaneal  Pertaining to the calcaneum; as, calcaneal arteries.
Calcaneum  One of the bones of the tarsus which in man, forms the great bone of the heel; -- called also fibulare.
Calcar  A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for the calcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit.
Calcaria  of Calcar
Calcar  A hollow tube or spur at the base of a petal or corolla.
Calcar  A slender bony process from the ankle joint of bats, which helps to support the posterior part of the web, in flight.
Calcar  A spur, or spurlike prominence.
Calcar  A curved ridge in the floor of the leteral ventricle of the brain; the calcar avis, hippocampus minor, or ergot.
Calcarate  Alt. of Calcarated
Calcarated  Having a spur, as the flower of the toadflax and larkspur; spurred.
Calcarated  Armed with a spur.
Calcareo-argillaceous  consisting of, or containing, calcareous and argillaceous earths.
Calcareo-bituminous  Consisting of, or containing, lime and bitumen.
Calcareo-siliceous  Consisting of, or containing calcareous and siliceous earths.
Calcareous  Partaking of the nature of calcite or calcium carbonate; consisting of, or containing, calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime.
Calcareousness  Quality of being calcareous.
Calcariferous  Lime-yielding; calciferous
Calcarine  Pertaining to, or situated near, the calcar of the brain.
Calcavella  A sweet wine from Portugal; -- so called from the district of Carcavelhos.
Calceated  Fitted with, or wearing, shoes.
Calced  Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced or barefooted; as the calced Carmelites.
Calcedon  A foul vein, like chalcedony, in some precious stones.
Calcedonic  Alt. of Calcedonian
Calcedonian  See Chalcedonic.
Calceiform  Shaped like a slipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper; calceolate.
Calceolaria  A genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plants, brought from South America; slipperwort. It has a yellow or purple flower, often spotted or striped, the shape of which suggests its name.
Calceolate  Slipper-ahaped. See Calceiform.
Calces  See Calx.
Calcic  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime.
Calciferous  Bearing, producing, or containing calcite, or carbonate of lime.
Calcific  Calciferous. Specifically: (Zool.) of or pertaining to the portion of the oviduct which forms the eggshell in birds and reptiles.
Calcification  The process of change into a stony or calcareous substance by the deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of bone and of teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue.
Calcified  Consisting of, or containing, calcareous matter or lime salts; calcareous.
Calciform  In the form of chalk or lime.
Calcified  of Calcify
Calcifying  of Calcify
Calcify  To make stony or calcareous by the deposit or secretion of salts of lime.
Calcify  To become changed into a stony or calcareous condition, in which lime is a principal ingredient, as in the formation of teeth.
Calcigenous  Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance on being oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc.
Calcigerous  Holding lime or other earthy salts; as, the calcigerous cells of the teeth.
Calcimine  A white or colored wash for the ceiling or other plastering of a room, consisting of a mixture of clear glue, Paris white or zinc white, and water.
Calcimined  of Calcimine
Calcimining  of Calcimine
Calcimine  To wash or cover with calcimine; as, to calcimine walls.
Calciminer  One who calcimines.
Calcinable  That may be calcined; as, a calcinable fossil.
Calcinate  To calcine.
Calcination  The act or process of disintegrating a substance, or rendering it friable by the action of heat, esp. by the expulsion of some volatile matter, as when carbonic and acid is expelled from carbonate of calcium in the burning of limestone in order to make lime.
Calcination  The act or process of reducing a metal to an oxide or metallic calx; oxidation.
Calcinatory  A vessel used in calcination.
Calciden  of Calcine
Calcining  of Calcine
Calcine  To reduce to a powder, or to a friable state, by the action of heat; to expel volatile matter from by means of heat, as carbonic acid from limestone, and thus (usually) to produce disintegration; as to, calcine bones.
Calcine  To oxidize, as a metal by the action of heat; to reduce to a metallic calx.
Calcine  To be converted into a powder or friable substance, or into a calx, by the action of heat.
Calciner  One who, or that which, calcines.
Calcispongiae  An order of marine sponges, containing calcareous spicules. See Porifera.
Calcite  Calcium carbonate, or carbonate of lime. It is rhombohedral in its crystallization, and thus distinguished from aragonite. It includes common limestone, chalk, and marble. Called also calc-spar and calcareous spar.
Calcitrant  Kicking. Hence: Stubborn; refractory.
Calcitrate  To kick.
Calcitration  Act of kicking.
Calcium  An elementary substance; a metal which combined with oxygen forms lime. It is of a pale yellow color, tenacious, and malleable. It is a member of the alkaline earth group of elements. Atomic weight 40. Symbol Ca.
Calcivorous  Eroding, or eating into, limestone.
Calcographer  One who practices calcography.
Calcographic  Alt. of Calcographical
Calcographical  Relating to, or in the style of, calcography.
Calcography  The art of drawing with chalk.
Calc-sinter  See under Calcite.
Calc-spar  Same as Calcite.
Calc-tufa  See under Calcite.
Calculable  That may be calculated or ascertained by calculation.
Calculary  Of or pertaining to calculi.
Calculary  A congeries of little stony knots found in the pulp of the pear and other fruits.
Calculater  of Calculate
Calculating  of Calculate
Calculate  To ascertain or determine by mathematical processes, usually by the ordinary rules of arithmetic; to reckon up; to estimate; to compute.
Calculate  To ascertain or predict by mathematical or astrological computations the time, circumstances, or other conditions of; to forecast or compute the character or consequences of; as, to calculate or cast one's nativity.
Calculate  To adjust for purpose; to adapt by forethought or calculation; to fit or prepare by the adaptation of means to an end; as, to calculate a system of laws for the government and protection of a free people.
Calculate  To plan; to expect; to think.
Calculate  To make a calculation; to forecast consequences; to estimate; to compute.
Calculated  Worked out by calculation; as calculated tables for computing interest; ascertained or conjectured as a result of calculation; as, the calculated place of a planet; the calculated velocity of a cannon ball.
Calculated  Adapted by calculation, contrivance. or forethought to accomplish a purpose; as, to use arts calculated to deceive the people.
Calculated  Likely to produce a certain effect, whether intended or not; fitted; adapted; suited.
Calculating  Of or pertaining to mathematical calculations; performing or able to perform mathematical calculations.
Calculating  Given to contrivance or forethought; forecasting; scheming; as, a cool calculating disposition.
Calculating  The act or process of making mathematical computations or of estimating results.
Calculation  The act or process, or the result, of calculating; computation; reckoning, estimate.
Calculation  An expectation based on circumstances.
Calculative  Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation.
Calculator  One who computes or reckons: one who estimates or considers the force and effect of causes, with a view to form a correct estimate of the effects.
Calculatory  Belonging to calculation.
Calcule  Reckoning; computation.
Calcule  To calculate
Calculi  See Calculus.
Calculous  Of the nature of a calculus; like stone; gritty; as, a calculous concretion.
Calculous  Caused, or characterized, by the presence of a calculus or calculi; a, a calculous disorder; affected with gravel or stone; as, a calculous person.
Calculi  of Calculus
Calculus  Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but most frequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passages connected with them; as, biliary calculi; urinary calculi, etc.
Calculus  A method of computation; any process of reasoning by the use of symbols; any branch of mathematics that may involve calculation.
Caldron  A large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron. [Written also cauldron.]
Caleche  See Calash.
Caledonia  The ancient Latin name of Scotland; -- still used in poetry.
Caledonian  Of or pertaining to Caledonia or Scotland; Scottish; Scotch.
Caledonian  A native or inhabitant of Caledonia or Scotland.
Caledonite  A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts of Caledonia or Scotland.
Calefacient  Making warm; heating.
Calefacient  A substance that excites warmth in the parts to which it is applied, as mustard.
Calefaction  The act of warming or heating; the production of heat in a body by the action of fire, or by communication of heat from other bodies.
Calefaction  The state of being heated.
Calefactive  See Calefactory.
Calefactor  A heater; one who, or that which, makes hot, as a stove, etc.
Calefactory  Making hot; producing or communicating heat.
Calefactory  An apartment in a monastery, warmed and used as a sitting room.
Calefactory  A hollow sphere of metal, filled with hot water, or a chafing dish, placed on the altar in cold weather for the priest to warm his hands with.
Calefied  of Calefy
Calefying  of Calefy
Calefy  To make warm or hot.
Calefy  To grow hot or warm.
Calembour  A pun.
Calendar  An orderly arrangement of the division of time, adapted to the purposes of civil life, as years, months, weeks, and days; also, a register of the year with its divisions; an almanac.
Calendar  A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints' days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly according to the varying date of Easter.
Calendar  An orderly list or enumeration of persons, things, or events; a schedule; as, a calendar of state papers; a calendar of bills presented in a legislative assembly; a calendar of causes arranged for trial in court; a calendar of a college or an academy.
Calendared  of Calendar
Calendaring  of Calendar
Calendar  To enter or write in a calendar; to register.
Calendarial  Of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar.
Calendary  Calendarial.
Calender  A machine, used for the purpose of giving cloth, paper, etc., a smooth, even, and glossy or glazed surface, by cold or hot pressure, or for watering them and giving them a wavy appearance. It consists of two or more cylinders revolving nearly in contact, with the necessary apparatus for moving and regulating.
Calender  One who pursues the business of calendering.
Calendered  of Calender
Calendering  of Calender
Calender  To press between rollers for the purpose of making smooth and glossy, or wavy, as woolen and silk stuffs, linens, paper, etc.
Calender  One of a sect or order of fantastically dressed or painted dervishes.
Calendographer  One who makes calendars.
Calendrer  A person who calenders cloth; a calender.
Calendric  Alt. of Calendrical
Calendrical  Of or pertaining to a calendar.
Calends  The first day of each month in the ancient Roman calendar.
Calendula  A genus of composite herbaceous plants. One species, Calendula officinalis, is the common marigold, and was supposed to blossom on the calends of every month, whence the name.
Calendulin  A gummy or mucilaginous tasteless substance obtained from the marigold or calendula, and analogous to bassorin.
Calenture  A name formerly given to various fevers occuring in tropics; esp. to a form of furious delirium accompanied by fever, among sailors, which sometimes led the affected person to imagine the sea to be a green field, and to throw himself into it.
Calenture  To see as in the delirium of one affected with calenture.
Calescence  Growing warmth; increasing heat.
Calves  of Calf
Calf  The young of the cow, or of the Bovine family of quadrupeds. Also, the young of some other mammals, as of the elephant, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, and whale.
Calf  Leather made of the skin of the calf; especially, a fine, light-colored leather used in bookbinding; as, to bind books in calf.
Calf  An awkward or silly boy or young man; any silly person; a dolt.
Calf  A small island near a larger; as, the Calf of Man.
Calf  A small mass of ice set free from the submerged part of a glacier or berg, and rising to the surface.
Calf  The fleshy hinder part of the leg below the knee.
Calfskin  The hide or skin of a calf; or leather made of the skin.
Cali  The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu.
Caliber  Alt. of Calibre
Calibre  The diameter of the bore, as a cannon or other firearm, or of any tube; or the weight or size of the projectile which a firearm will carry; as, an 8 inch gun, a 12-pounder, a 44 caliber.
Calibre  The diameter of round or cylindrical body, as of a bullet or column.
Calibre  Fig.: Capacity or compass of mind.
Calibrate  To ascertain the caliber of, as of a thermometer tube; also, more generally, to determine or rectify the graduation of, as of the various standards or graduated instruments.
Calibration  The process of estimating the caliber a tube, as of a thermometer tube, in order to graduate it to a scale of degrees; also, more generally, the determination of the true value of the spaces in any graduated instrument.
Calice  See Chalice.
Calicle  One of the small cuplike cavities, often with elevated borders, covering the surface of most corals. Each is formed by a polyp. (b) One of the cuplike structures inclosing the zooids of certain hydroids. See Campanularian.
Calicoes  of Calico
Calico  Plain white cloth made from cotton, but which receives distinctive names according to quality and use, as, super calicoes, shirting calicoes, unbleached calicoes, etc.
Calico  Cotton cloth printed with a figured pattern.
Calico  Made of, or having the appearance of, calico; -- often applied to an animal, as a horse or cat, on whose body are large patches of a color strikingly different from its main color.
Calicoback  The calico bass.
Calicoback  An hemipterous insect (Murgantia histrionica) which injures the cabbage and other garden plants; -- called also calico bug and harlequin cabbage bug.
Calicular  Alt. of Caliculate
Caliculate  Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used for calycular, calyculate.
Calid  Hot; burning; ardent.
Calidity  Heat.
Caliduct  A pipe or duct used to convey hot air or steam.
Calif  Alt. of Califate
Califate  Same as Caliph, Caliphate, etc.
Californian  Of or pertaining to California.
Californian  A native or inhabitant of California.
Caligation  Dimness; cloudiness.
Caliginosity  Darkness.
Caliginous  Affected with darkness or dimness; dark; obscure.
Caligo  Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on the cornea; also, the speck itself.
Caligraphic  See Calligraphic.
Caligraphy  See Caligraphy.
Calin  An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make tea canisters.
Calipash  A part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell. It contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a dull greenish tinge, much esteemed as a delicacy in preparations of turtle.
Calipee  A part of a turtle which is attached to the lower shell. It contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a light yellowish color, much esteemed as a delicacy.
Calipers  An instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers or compasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thickness of bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts, shot, etc.; or the bore of firearms, tubes, etc.; -- called also caliper compasses, or caliber compasses.
Caliph  Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammed both as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans of Turkey.
Caliphate  The office, dignity, or government of a caliph or of the caliphs.
Calippic  Of or pertaining to Calippus, an Athenian astronomer.
Calisaya  A valuable kind of Peruvian bark obtained from the Cinchona Calisaya, and other closely related species.
Calistheneum  A gymnasium; esp. one for light physical exercise by women and children.
Calisthenis  Of or pertaining to calisthenics.
Calisthenics  The science, art, or practice of healthful exercise of the body and limbs, to promote strength and gracefulness; light gymnastics.
Caliver  An early form of hand gun, variety of the arquebus; originally a gun having a regular size of bore.
Calix  A cup. See Calyx.
Calked  of Calk
Calking  of Calk
Calk  To drive tarred oakum into the seams between the planks of (a ship, boat, etc.), to prevent leaking. The calking is completed by smearing the seams with melted pitch.
Calk  To make an indentation in the edge of a metal plate, as along a seam in a steam boiler or an iron ship, to force the edge of the upper plate hard against the lower and so fill the crevice.
Calk  To copy, as a drawing, by rubbing the back of it with red or black chalk, and then passing a blunt style or needle over the lines, so as to leave a tracing on the paper or other thing against which it is laid or held.
Calk  A sharp-pointed piece of iron or steel projecting downward on the shoe of a horse or an ox, to prevent the animal from slipping; -- called also calker, calkin.
Calk  An instrument with sharp points, worn on the sole of a shoe or boot, to prevent slipping.
Calk  To furnish with calks, to prevent slipping on ice; as, to calk the shoes of a horse or an ox.
Calk  To wound with a calk; as when a horse injures a leg or a foot with a calk on one of the other feet.
Calker  One who calks.
Calker  A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.
Calkin  A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.
Calking  The act or process of making seems tight, as in ships, or of furnishing with calks, as a shoe, or copying, as a drawing.
Called  of Call
Calling  of Call
Call  To command or request to come or be present; to summon; as, to call a servant.
Call  To summon to the discharge of a particular duty; to designate for an office, or employment, especially of a religious character; -- often used of a divine summons; as, to be called to the ministry; sometimes, to invite; as, to call a minister to be the pastor of a church.
Call  To invite or command to meet; to convoke; -- often with together; as, the President called Congress together; to appoint and summon; as, to call a meeting of the Board of Aldermen.
Call  To give name to; to name; to address, or speak of, by a specifed name.
Call  To regard or characterize as of a certain kind; to denominate; to designate.
Call  To state, or estimate, approximately or loosely; to characterize without strict regard to fact; as, they call the distance ten miles; he called it a full day's work.
Call  To show or disclose the class, character, or nationality of.
Call  To utter in a loud or distinct voice; -- often with off; as, to call, or call off, the items of an account; to call the roll of a military company.
Call  To invoke; to appeal to.
Call  To rouse from sleep; to awaken.
Call  To speak in loud voice; to cry out; to address by name; -- sometimes with to.
Call  To make a demand, requirement, or request.
Call  To make a brief visit; also, to stop at some place designated, as for orders.
Call  The act of calling; -- usually with the voice, but often otherwise, as by signs, the sound of some instrument, or by writing; a summons; an entreaty; an invitation; as, a call for help; the bugle's call.
Call  A signal, as on a drum, bugle, trumpet, or pipe, to summon soldiers or sailors to duty.
Call  An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as its pastor.
Call  A requirement or appeal arising from the circumstances of the case; a moral requirement or appeal.
Call  A divine vocation or summons.
Call  Vocation; employment.
Call  A short visit; as, to make a call on a neighbor; also, the daily coming of a tradesman to solicit orders.
Call  A note blown on the horn to encourage the hounds.
Call  A whistle or pipe, used by the boatswain and his mate, to summon the sailors to duty.
Call  The cry of a bird; also a noise or cry in imitation of a bird; or a pipe to call birds by imitating their note or cry.
Call  A reference to, or statement of, an object, course, distance, or other matter of description in a survey or grant requiring or calling for a corresponding object, etc., on the land.
Call  The privilege to demand the delivery of stock, grain, or any commodity, at a fixed, price, at or within a certain time agreed on.
Call  See Assessment, 4.
Calla  A genus of plants, of the order Araceae.
Callat  Same as Callet.
Calle  A kind of head covering; a caul.
Caller  One who calls.
Caller  Cool; refreshing; fresh; as, a caller day; the caller air.
Caller  Fresh; in good condition; as, caller berrings.
Callet  A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip.
Callet  To rail or scold.
Callid  Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty.
Callidity  Acuteness of discernment; cunningness; shrewdness.
Calligrapher  One skilled in calligraphy; a good penman.
Calligraphic  Alt. of Calligraphical
Calligraphical  Of or pertaining to calligraphy.
Calligraphist  A calligrapher
Calligraphy  Fair or elegant penmanship.
Calling  The act of one who calls; a crying aloud, esp. in order to summon, or to attact the attention of, some one.
Calling  A summoning or convocation, as of Parliament.
Calling  A divine summons or invitation; also, the state of being divinely called.
Calling  A naming, or inviting; a reading over or reciting in order, or a call of names with a view to obtaining an answer, as in legislative bodies.
Calling  One's usual occupation, or employment; vocation; business; trade.
Calling  The persons, collectively, engaged in any particular professions or employment.
Calling  Title; appellation; name.
Calliope  The Muse that presides over eloquence and heroic poetry; mother of Orpheus, and chief of the nine Muses.
Calliope  One of the asteroids. See Solar.
Calliope  A musical instrument consisting of a series of steam whistles, toned to the notes of the scale, and played by keys arranged like those of an organ. It is sometimes attached to steamboat boilers.
Calliope  A beautiful species of humming bird (Stellula Calliope) of California and adjacent regions.
Calliopsis  A popular name given to a few species of the genus Coreopsis, especially to C. tinctoria of Arkansas.
Callipash  See Calipash.
Callipee  See Calipee.
Callipers  See Calipers.
Callisection  Painless vivisection; -- opposed to sentisection.
Callisthenic  Alt. of Callisthenics
Callisthenics  See Calisthenic, Calisthenics.
Callithump  A somewhat riotous parade, accompanied with the blowing of tin horns, and other discordant noises; also, a burlesque serenade; a charivari.
Callithumpian  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a callithump.
Callosan  Of the callosum.
Callose  Furnished with protuberant or hardened spots.
Callosities  of Callosity
Callosity  A hard or thickened spot or protuberance; a hardening and thickening of the skin or bark of a part, eps. as a result of continued pressure or friction.
Callosum  The great band commissural fibers which unites the two cerebral hemispheres. See corpus callosum, under Carpus.
Callot  A plant coif or skullcap. Same as Calotte.
Callous  Hardened; indurated.
Callous  Hardened in mind; insensible; unfeeling; unsusceptible.
Callow  Destitute of feathers; naked; unfledged.
Callow  Immature; boyish; "green"; as, a callow youth.
Callow  A kind of duck. See Old squaw.
Callus  Same as Callosity
Callus  The material of repair in fractures of bone; a substance exuded at the site of fracture, which is at first soft or cartilaginous in consistence, but is ultimately converted into true bone and unites the fragments into a single piece.
Callus  The new formation over the end of a cutting, before it puts out rootlets.
Calm  Freedom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation or absence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds or waves; tranquility; stillness; quiet; serenity.
Calmed  of Calm
Calming  of Calm
Calm  To make calm; to render still or quiet, as elements; as, to calm the winds.
Calm  To deliver from agitation or excitement; to still or soothe, as the mind or passions.
Calm  Not stormy; without motion, as of winds or waves; still; quiet; serene; undisturbed.
Calm  Undisturbed by passion or emotion; not agitated or excited; tranquil; quiet in act or speech.
Calmer  One who, or that which, makes calm.
Calmly  In a calm manner.
Calmness  The state of quality of being calm; quietness; tranquillity; self-repose.
Calmucks  A branch of the Mongolian race inhabiting parts of the Russian and Chinese empires; also (sing.), the language of the Calmucks.
Calmy  Tranquil; peaceful; calm.
Calomel  Mild chloride of mercury, Hg2Cl2, a heavy, white or yellowish white substance, insoluble and tasteless, much used in medicine as a mercurial and purgative; mercurous chloride. It occurs native as the mineral horn quicksilver.
Calorescence  The conversion of obscure radiant heat into light; the transmutation of rays of heat into others of higher refrangibility.
Caloric  The principle of heat, or the agent to which the phenomena of heat and combustion were formerly ascribed; -- not now used in scientific nomenclature, but sometimes used as a general term for heat.
Caloric  Of or pertaining to caloric.
Caloricity  A faculty in animals of developing and preserving the heat necessary to life, that is, the animal heat.
Caloriduct  A tube or duct for conducting heat; a caliduct.
Calorie  The unit of heat according to the French standard; the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one kilogram (sometimes, one gram) of water one degree centigrade, or from 0 to 1. Compare the English standard unit, Foot pound.
Calorifacient  See Calorificient.
Calorifere  An apparatus for conveying and distributing heat, especially by means of hot water circulating in tubes.
Calorifiant  See Calorificient.
Calorific  Possessing the quality of producing heat; heating.
Calorification  Production of heat, esp. animal heat.
Calorificient  Having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- applied to foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed to give rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation.
Calorimeter  An apparatus for measuring the amount of heat contained in bodies or developed by some mechanical or chemical process, as friction, chemical combination, combustion, etc.
Calorimeter  An apparatus for measuring the proportion of unevaporated water contained in steam.
Calorimetric  Of or pertaining to the process of using the calorimeter.
Calorimetry  Measurement of the quantities of heat in bodies.
Calorimotor  A voltaic battery, having a large surface of plate, and producing powerful heating effects.
Calotte  Alt. of Callot
Callot  A close cap without visor or brim.
Callot  Such a cap, worn by English serjeants at law.
Callot  Such a cap, worn by the French cavalry under their helmets.
Callot  Such a cap, worn by the clergy of the Roman Catholic Church.
Calotype  A method of taking photographic pictures, on paper sensitized with iodide of silver; -- also called Talbotype, from the inventor, Mr. Fox. Talbot.
Caloyer  A monk of the Greek Church; a cenobite, anchoret, or recluse of the rule of St. Basil, especially, one on or near Mt. Athos.
Calque  See 2d Calk, v. t.
Caltrop  Alt. of Caltrap
Caltrap  A genus of herbaceous plants (Tribulus) of the order Zygophylleae, having a hard several-celled fruit, armed with stout spines, and resembling the military instrument of the same name. The species grow in warm countries, and are often very annoying to cattle.
Caltrap  An instrument with four iron points, so disposed that, any three of them being on the ground, the other projects upward. They are scattered on the ground where an enemy's cavalry are to pass, to impede their progress by endangering the horses' feet.
Calumba  The root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculus palmatus), indigenous in Mozambique. It has an unpleasantly bitter taste, and is used as a tonic and antiseptic.
Calumbin  A bitter principle extracted as a white crystalline substance from the calumba root.
Calumet  A kind of pipe, used by the North American Indians for smoking tobacco. The bowl is usually made of soft red stone, and the tube is a long reed often ornamented with feathers.
Calumniated  of Calumniate
Calumniating  of Calumniate
Calumniate  To accuse falsely and maliciously of a crime or offense, or of something disreputable; to slander; to libel.
Calumniate  To propagate evil reports with a design to injure the reputation of another; to make purposely false charges of some offense or crime.
Calumniation  False accusation of crime or offense, or a malicious and false representation of the words or actions of another, with a view to injure his good name.
Calumniator  One who calumniates.
Calumniatory  Containing calumny; slanderous.
Calumnious  Containing or implying calumny; false, malicious, and injurious to reputation; slanderous; as, calumnious reports.
Calumnies  of Calumny
Calumny  False accusation of a crime or offense, maliciously made or reported, to the injury of another; malicious misrepresentation; slander; detraction.
Calvaria  The bones of the cranium; more especially, the bones of the domelike upper portion.
Calvary  The place where Christ was crucified, on a small hill outside of Jerusalem.
Calvary  A representation of the crucifixion, consisting of three crosses with the figures of Christ and the thieves, often as large as life, and sometimes surrounded by figures of other personages who were present at the crucifixion.
Calvary  A cross, set upon three steps; -- more properly called cross calvary.
Calved  of Calve
Calving  of Calve
Calve  To bring forth a calf.
Calve  To bring forth young; to produce offspring.
Calver  To cut in slices and pickle, as salmon.
Calver  To crimp; as, calvered salmon.
Calver  To bear, or be susceptible of, being calvered; as, grayling's flesh will calver.
Calvessnout  Snapdragon.
Calvinism  The theological tenets or doctrines of John Calvin (a French theologian and reformer of the 16th century) and his followers, or of the so-called calvinistic churches.
Calvinist  A follower of Calvin; a believer in Calvinism.
Calvinistic  Alt. of Calvinistical
Calvinistical  Of or pertaining to Calvin, or Calvinism; following Calvin; accepting or Teaching Calvinism.
Calvinize  To convert to Calvinism.
Calvish  Like a calf; stupid.
Calxes  of Calx
Calces  of Calx
Calx  Quicklime.
Calx  The substance which remains when a metal or mineral has been subjected to calcination or combustion by heat, and which is, or may be, reduced to a fine powder.
Calx  Broken and refuse glass, returned to the post.
Calycifloral  Alt. of callyciflorous
Callyciflorous  Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- applied to a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the French botanist Candolle.
Calyciform  Having the form or appearance of a calyx.
Calycinal  Alt. of Calycine
Calycine  Pertaining to a calyx; having the nature of a calyx.
Calycle  A row of small bracts, at the base of the calyx, on the outside.
Calycled  Calyculate.
Calycozoa  A group of acalephs of which Lucernaria is the type. The body is cup-shaped with eight marginal lobes bearing clavate tentacles. An aboral sucker serves for attachment. The interior is divided into four large compartments. See Lucernarida.
Calycular  Pertaining to, or resembling, the bracts of a calycle.
Calyculate  Alt. of Calyculated
Calyculated  Having a set of bracts resembling a calyx.
Calymene  A genus of trilobites characteristic of the Silurian age.
Calyon  Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc.
Calypso  A small and beautiful species of orchid, having a flower variegated with purple, pink, and yellow. It grows in cold and wet localities in the northern part of the United States. The Calypso borealis is the only orchid which reaches 68 N.
Calyptra  A little hood or veil, resembling an extinguisher in form and position, covering each of the small flasklike capsules which contain the spores of mosses; also, any similar covering body.
Calyptriform  Having the form a calyptra, or extinguisher.
Calyxes  of Calyx
Calyces  of Calyx
Calyx  The covering of a flower. See Flower.
Calyx  A cuplike division of the pelvis of the kidney, which surrounds one or more of the renal papillae.
Calzoons  Drawers.
Cam  A turning or sliding piece which, by the shape of its periphery or face, or a groove in its surface, imparts variable or intermittent motion to, or receives such motion from, a rod, lever, or block brought into sliding or rolling contact with it.
Cam  A curved wedge, movable about an axis, used for forcing or clamping two pieces together.
Cam  A projecting part of a wheel or other moving piece so shaped as to give alternate or variable motion to another piece against which it acts.
Cam  A ridge or mound of earth.
Cam  Crooked.
Camaieu  A cameo.
Camaieu  Painting in shades of one color; monochrome.
Camail  A neck guard of chain mall, hanging from the bascinet or other headpiece.
Camail  A hood of other material than mail;
Camail  a hood worn in church services, -- the amice, or the like.
Camarasaurus  A genus of gigantic American Jurassic dinosaurs, having large cavities in the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae.
Camarilla  The private audience chamber of a king.
Camarilla  A company of secret and irresponsible advisers, as of a king; a cabal or clique.
Camass  A blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) of northwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food by the Indians.
Camber  An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has a high camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck).
Camber  An upward concavity in the under side of a beam, girder, or lintel; also, a slight upward concavity in a straight arch. See Hogback.
Cambered  of Camber
Cambering  of Camber
Camber  To cut bend to an upward curve; to construct, as a deck, with an upward curve.
Camber  To curve upward.
Camberkeeled  Having the keel arched upwards, but not actually hogged; -- said of a ship.
Cambial  Belonging to exchanges in commerce; of exchange.
Cambist  A banker; a money changer or broker; one who deals in bills of exchange, or who is skilled in the science of exchange.
Cambistry  The science of exchange, weight, measures, etc.
Cambium  A series of formative cells lying outside of the wood proper and inside of the inner bark. The growth of new wood takes place in the cambium, which is very soft.
Cambium  A fancied nutritive juice, formerly supposed to originate in the blood, to repair losses of the system, and to promote its increase.
Camblet  See Camlet.
Camboge  See Gamboge.
Camboose  See Caboose.
Cambrasine  A kind of linen cloth made in Egypt, and so named from its resemblance to cambric.
Cambrel  See Gambrel, n., 2.
Cambria  The ancient Latin name of Wales. It is used by modern poets.
Cambrian  Of or pertaining to Cambria or Wales.
Cambrian  Of or pertaining to the lowest subdivision of the rocks of the Silurian or Molluscan age; -- sometimes described as inferior to the Silurian. It is named from its development in Cambria or Wales. See the Diagram under Geology.
Cambrian  A native of Cambria or Wales.
Cambrian  The Cambrian formation.
Cambric  A fine, thin, and white fabric made of flax or linen.
Cambric  A fabric made, in imitation of linen cambric, of fine, hardspun cotton, often with figures of various colors; -- also called cotton cambric, and cambric muslin.
Cambro-Briton  A Welshman.
Came  imp. of Come.
Came  A slender rod of cast lead, with or without grooves, used, in casements and stained-glass windows, to hold together the panes or pieces of glass.
Camel  A large ruminant used in Asia and Africa for carrying burdens and for riding. The camel is remarkable for its ability to go a long time without drinking. Its hoofs are small, and situated at the extremities of the toes, and the weight of the animal rests on the callous. The dromedary (Camelus dromedarius) has one bunch on the back, while the Bactrian camel (C. Bactrianus) has two. The llama, alpaca, and vicua, of South America, belong to a related genus (Auchenia).
Camel  A water-tight structure (as a large box or boxes) used to assist a vessel in passing over a shoal or bar or in navigating shallow water. By admitting water, the camel or camels may be sunk and attached beneath or at the sides of a vessel, and when the water is pumped out the vessel is lifted.
Camel-backed  Having a back like a camel; humpbacked.
Cameleon  See Chaceleon.
Camellia  An Asiatic genus of small shrubs, often with shining leaves and showy flowers. Camellia Japonica is much cultivated for ornament, and C. Sassanqua and C. oleifera are grown in China for the oil which is pressed from their seeds. The tea plant is now referred to this genus under the name of Camellia Thea.
Camelopard  An African ruminant; the giraffe. See Giraffe.
Camelot  See Camelet.
Camelshair  Of camel's hair.
Cameos  of Cameo
Cameo  A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewel for personal adornment, or like.
Cameras  of Camera
Camerae  of Camera
Camera  A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically: The camera obscura when used in photography. See Camera, and Camera obscura.
Camerade  See Comrade.
Cameralistic  Of or pertaining to finance and public revenue.
Cameralistics  The science of finance or public revenue.
Camera  An instrument which by means of a prism of a peculiar form, or an arrangement of mirrors, causes an apparent image of an external object or objects to appear as if projected upon a plane surface, as of paper or canvas, so that the outlines may conveniently traced. It is generally used with the microscope.
Camera  An apparatus in which the images of external objects, formed by a convex lens or a concave mirror, are thrown on a paper or other white surface placed in the focus of the lens or mirror within a darkened chamber, or box, so that the outlines may be traced.
Camera  An apparatus in which the image of an external object or objects is, by means of lenses, thrown upon a sensitized plate or surface placed at the back of an extensible darkened box or chamber variously modified; -- commonly called simply the camera.
Camerated  of Camerate
Camerzting  of Camerate
Camerate  To build in the form of a vault; to arch over.
Camerate  To divide into chambers.
Cameration  A vaulting or arching over.
Camerlingo  The papal chamberlain; the cardinal who presides over the pope's household. He has at times possessed great power.
Cameronian  A follower of the Rev. Richard Cameron, a Scotch Covenanter of the time of Charles II.
Camis  A light, loose dress or robe.
Camisade  Alt. of Camisado
Camisado  A shirt worn by soldiers over their uniform, in order to be able to recognize one another in a night attack.
Camisado  An attack by surprise by soldiers wearing the camisado.
Camisard  One of the French Protestant insurgents who rebelled against Louis XIV, after the revocation of the edict of Nates; -- so called from the peasant's smock (camise) which they wore.
Camisated  Dressed with a shirt over the other garments.
Camisole  A short dressing jacket for women.
Camisole  A kind of straitjacket.
Camlet  A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly of goat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton.
Camleted  Wavy or undulating like camlet; veined.
Cammas  See Camass.
Cammock  A plant having long hard, crooked roots, the Ononis spinosa; -- called also rest-harrow. The Scandix Pecten-Veneris is also called cammock.
Camomile  Alt. of Chamomile
Chamomile  A genus of herbs (Anthemis) of the Composite family. The common camomile, A. nobilis, is used as a popular remedy. Its flowers have a strong and fragrant and a bitter, aromatic taste. They are tonic, febrifugal, and in large doses emetic, and the volatile oil is carminative.
Camonflet  A small mine, sometimes formed in the wall or side of an enemy's gallery, to blow in the earth and cut off the retreat of the miners.
Camous  Alt. of Camoys
Camoys  Flat; depressed; crooked; -- said only of the nose.
Camoused  Depressed; flattened.
Camously  Awry.
Camp  The ground or spot on which tents, huts, etc., are erected for shelter, as for an army or for lumbermen, etc.
Camp  A collection of tents, huts, etc., for shelter, commonly arranged in an orderly manner.
Camp  A single hut or shelter; as, a hunter's camp.
Camp  The company or body of persons encamped, as of soldiers, of surveyors, of lumbermen, etc.
Camp  A mound of earth in which potatoes and other vegetables are stored for protection against frost; -- called also burrow and pie.
Camp  An ancient game of football, played in some parts of England.
Camped  of Camp
Camping  of Camp
Camp  To afford rest or lodging for, as an army or travelers.
Camp  To pitch or prepare a camp; to encamp; to lodge in a camp; -- often with out.
Camp  To play the game called camp.
Campagna  An open level tract of country; especially "Campagna di Roma." The extensive undulating plain which surrounds Rome.
Campagnol  A mouse (Arvicala agrestis), called also meadow mouse, which often does great damage in fields and gardens, by feeding on roots and seeds.
Campaign  An open field; a large, open plain without considerable hills. SeeChampaign.
Campaign  A connected series of military operations forming a distinct stage in a war; the time during which an army keeps the field.
Campaign  Political operations preceding an election; a canvass.
Campaign  The period during which a blast furnace is continuously in operation.
Campaign  To serve in a campaign.
Campaigner  One who has served in an army in several campaigns; an old soldier; a veteran.
Campana  A church bell.
Campana  The pasque flower.
Campana  Same as Gutta.
Campaned  Furnished with, or bearing, campanes, or bells.
Campanero  The bellbird of South America. See Bellbird.
Campanes  Bells.
Campania  Open country.
Campaniform  Bell-shaped.
Campanile  A bell tower, esp. one built separate from a church.
Campaniliform  Bell-shaped; campanulate; campaniform.
Campanologist  One skilled in campanology; a bell ringer.
Campanology  The art of ringing bells, or a treatise on the art.
Campanula  A large genus of plants bearing bell-shaped flowers, often of great beauty; -- also called bellflower.
Campanulaceous  Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants (Camponulaceae) of which Campanula is the type, and which includes the Canterbury bell, the harebell, and the Venus's looking-glass.
Campanularian  A hydroid of the family ampanularidae, characterized by having the polyps or zooids inclosed in bell-shaped calicles or hydrothecae.
Campanulate  Bell-shaped.
Campbellite  A member of the denomination called Christians or Disciples of Christ. They themselves repudiate the term Campbellite as a nickname. See Christian, 3.
Campeachy  Logwood.
Camper  One who lodges temporarily in a hut or camp.
Campestral  Alt. of Campestrian
Campestrian  Relating to an open fields; drowing in a field; growing in a field, or open ground.
Camptight  A duel; the decision of a case by a duel.
Camphene  One of a series of substances C10H16, resembling camphor, regarded as modified terpenes.
Camphine  Rectified oil of turpentine, used for burning in lamps, and as a common solvent in varnishes.
Camphire  An old spelling of Camphor.
Camphogen  See Cymene.
Camphol  See Borneol.
Camphor  A tough, white, aromatic resin, or gum, obtained from different species of the Laurus family, esp. from Cinnamomum camphara (the Laurus camphara of Linnaeus.). Camphor, C10H16O, is volatile and fragrant, and is used in medicine as a diaphoretic, a stimulant, or sedative.
Camphor  A gum resembling ordinary camphor, obtained from a tree (Dryobalanops camphora) growing in Sumatra and Borneo; -- called also Malay camphor, camphor of Borneo, or borneol. See Borneol.
Camphor  To impregnate or wash with camphor; to camphorate.
Camphoraceous  Of the nature of camphor; containing camphor.
Camphorate  To impregnate or treat with camphor.
Camphorate  A salt of camphoric acid.
Camphorate  Alt. of Camporated
Camporated  Combined or impregnated with camphor.
Camphoric  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, camphor.
Camphretic  Pertaining to, or derived from camphor.
Camping  Lodging in a camp.
Camping  A game of football.
Campion  A plant of the Pink family (Cucubalus bacciferus), bearing berries regarded as poisonous.
Campus  The principal grounds of a college or school, between the buildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus.
Campylospermous  Having seeds grooved lengthwise on the inner face, as in sweet cicely.
Campylotropous  Having the ovules and seeds so curved, or bent down upon themselves, that the ends of the embryo are brought close together.
Camus  See Camis.
Camwood  See Barwood.
Can  an obs. form of began, imp. & p. p. of Begin, sometimes used in old poetry. [See Gan.]
Can  A drinking cup; a vessel for holding liquids.
Can  A vessel or case of tinned iron or of sheet metal, of various forms, but usually cylindrical; as, a can of tomatoes; an oil can; a milk can.
Canned  of Can
Canning  of Can
Can  To preserve by putting in sealed cans
Could  of Can
Can  To know; to understand.
Can  To be able to do; to have power or influence.
Can  To be able; -- followed by an infinitive without to; as, I can go, but do not wish to.
Canaanite  A descendant of Canaan, the son of Ham, and grandson of Noah.
Canaanite  A Native or inhabitant of the land of Canaan, esp. a member of any of the tribes who inhabited Canaan at the time of the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt.
Canaanite  A zealot.
Canaanitish  Of or pertaining to Canaan or the Canaanites.
Caada  A small caon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley.
Canada  A British province in North America, giving its name to various plants and animals.
Canadian  Of or pertaining to Canada.
Canadian  A native or inhabitant of Canada.
Canaille  The lowest class of people; the rabble; the vulgar.
Canaille  Shorts or inferior flour.
Canakin  A little can or cup.
Canal  An artificial channel filled with water and designed for navigation, or for irrigating land, etc.
Canal  A tube or duct; as, the alimentary canal; the semicircular canals of the ear.
Canal  See Cannel coal.
Canaliculate  Alt. of Canaliculated
Canaliculated  Having a channel or groove, as in the leafstalks of most palms.
Canaliculi  of Canaliculus
Canaliculus  A minute canal.
Canalization  Construction of, or furnishing with, a canal or canals.
Canard  An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricated sensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in the newspapers to hoax the public.
Canarese  Pertaining to Canara, a district of British India.
Canary  Of or pertaining to the Canary Islands; as, canary wine; canary birds.
Canary  Of a pale yellowish color; as, Canary stone.
Canaries  of Canary
Canary  Wine made in the Canary Islands; sack.
Canary  A canary bird.
Canary  A pale yellow color, like that of a canary bird.
Canary  A quick and lively dance.
Canary  To perform the canary dance; to move nimbly; to caper.
Canary  A small singing bird of the Finch family (Serinus Canarius), a native of the Canary Islands. It was brought to Europe in the 16th century, and made a household pet. It generally has a yellowish body with the wings and tail greenish, but in its wild state it is more frequently of gray or brown color. It is sometimes called canary finch.
Canaster  A kind of tobacco for smoking, made of the dried leaves, coarsely broken; -- so called from the rush baskets in which it is packed in South America.
Can  See under Buoy, n.
Cancan  A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous or extravagant postures and gestures.
Canceled  of Cancel
Cancelled  of Cancel
Canceling  of Cancel
Cancelling  of Cancel
Cancel  To inclose or surround, as with a railing, or with latticework.
Cancel  To shut out, as with a railing or with latticework; to exclude.
Cancel  To cross and deface, as the lines of a writing, or as a word or figure; to mark out by a cross line; to blot out or obliterate.
Cancel  To annul or destroy; to revoke or recall.
Cancel  To suppress or omit; to strike out, as matter in type.
Cancel  An inclosure; a boundary; a limit.
Cancel  The suppression or striking out of matter in type, or of a printed page or pages.
Cancel  The part thus suppressed.
Cancelier  To turn in flight; -- said of a hawk.
Cancelier  Alt. of Canceleer
Canceleer  The turn of a hawk upon the wing to recover herself, when she misses her aim in the stoop.
Cancellarean  Cancellarean.
Cancellate  Consisting of a network of veins, without intermediate parenchyma, as the leaves of certain plants; latticelike.
Cancellate  Having the surface coveres with raised lines, crossing at right angles.
Cancellated  Crossbarred; marked with cross lines.
Cancellated  Open or spongy, as some porous bones.
Cancellation  The act, process, or result of canceling; as, the cansellation of certain words in a contract, or of the contract itself.
Cancellation  The operation of striking out common factors, in both the dividend and divisor.
Cancelli  An interwoven or latticed wall or inclosure; latticework, rails, or crossbars, as around the bar of a court of justice, between the chancel and the nave of a church, or in a window.
Cancelli  The interlacing osseous plates constituting the elastic porous tissue of certain parts of the bones, esp. in their articular extremities.
Cancellous  Having a spongy or porous structure; made up of cancelli; cancellated; as, the cancellous texture of parts of many bones.
Cancer  A genus of decapod Crustacea, including some of the most common shore crabs of Europe and North America, as the rock crab, Jonah crab, etc. See Crab.
Cancer  The fourth of the twelve signs of the zodiac. The first point is the northern limit of the sun's course in summer; hence, the sign of the summer solstice. See Tropic.
Cancer  A northern constellation between Gemini and Leo.
Cancer  Formerly, any malignant growth, esp. one attended with great pain and ulceration, with cachexia and progressive emaciation. It was so called, perhaps, from the great veins which surround it, compared by the ancients to the claws of a crab. The term is now restricted to such a growth made up of aggregations of epithelial cells, either without support or embedded in the meshes of a trabecular framework.
Cancerated  of Cancerate
Cancerate  To grow into a canser; to become cancerous.
Canceration  The act or state of becoming cancerous or growing into a cancer.
Cancerite  Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer; affected with cancer.
Cancriform  Having the form of, or resembling, a crab; crab-shaped.
Cancriform  Like a cancer; cancerous.
Cancrine  Having the qualities of a crab; crablike.
Cancrinite  A mineral occurring in hexagonal crystals, also massive, generally of a yellow color, containing silica, alumina, lime, soda, and carbon dioxide.
Cancroid  Resembling a crab; pertaining to the Cancroidea, one of the families of crabs, including the genus Cancer.
Cancroid  Like a cancer; as, a cancroid tumor.
Cand  Fluor spar. See Kand.
Candelabra  of Candelabrum
Candelabrums  of Candelabrum
Candelabrum  A lamp stand of any sort.
Candelabrum  A highly ornamented stand of marble or other ponderous material, usually having three feet, -- frequently a votive offering to a temple.
Candelabrum  A large candlestick, having several branches.
Candent  Heated to whiteness; glowing with heat.
Canderos  An East Indian resin, of a pellucid white color, from which small ornaments and toys are sometimes made.
Dab  A skillful hand; a dabster; an expert.
Dab  A name given to several species of flounders, esp. to the European species, Pleuronectes limanda. The American rough dab is Hippoglossoides platessoides.
Dabbed  of Dab
Dabbing  of Dab
Dab  To strike or touch gently, as with a soft or moist substance; to tap; hence, to besmear with a dabber.
Dab  To strike by a thrust; to hit with a sudden blow or thrust.
Dab  A gentle blow with the hand or some soft substance; a sudden blow or hit; a peck.
Dab  A small mass of anything soft or moist.
Dabb  A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes), found in Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine; -- called also dhobb, and dhabb.
Dabber  That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used by printers, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plates with ink.
Dabbled  of Dabble
Dabbling  of Dabble
Dabble  To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; to moisten; to wet.
Dabble  To play in water, as with the hands; to paddle or splash in mud or water.
Dabble  To work in slight or superficial manner; to do in a small way; to tamper; to meddle.
Dabbler  One who dabbles.
Dabbler  One who dips slightly into anything; a superficial meddler.
Dabblingly  In a dabbling manner.
Dabchick  A small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes, remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick, dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver, hell-diver, and pied-billed grebe.
Daboia  A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica).
Dabster  One who is skilled; a master of his business; a proficient; an adept.
Dacapo  From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, the first strain; -- indicated by the letters D. C. Also, the strain so repeated.
Dace  A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus or Leuciscus vulgaris); -- called also dare.
Dachshund  One of a breed of small dogs with short crooked legs, and long body; -- called also badger dog. There are two kinds, the rough-haired and the smooth-haired.
Dacian  Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians.
Dacian  A native of ancient Dacia.
Dacoit  One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs.
Dacoity  The practice of gang robbery in India; robbery committed by dacoits.
Dacotahs  Same as Dacotas.
Dactyl  A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~), one long followed by two short, or one accented followed by two unaccented; as, L. tegm/n/, E. mer\b6ciful; -- so called from the similarity of its arrangement to that of the joints of a finger.
Dactyl  A finger or toe; a digit.
Dactyl  The claw or terminal joint of a leg of an insect or crustacean.
Dactylar  Pertaining to dactyl; dactylic.
Dactylar  Of or pertaining to a finger or toe, or to the claw of an insect crustacean.
Dactylet  A dactyl.
Dactylic  Pertaining to, consisting chiefly or wholly of, dactyls; as, dactylic verses.
Dactylic  A line consisting chiefly or wholly of dactyls; as, these lines are dactylics.
Dactylic  Dactylic meters.
Dactylioglyph  An engraver of gems for rings and other ornaments.
Dactylioglyph  The inscription of the engraver's name on a finger ring or gem.
Dactylioglyphi  The art or process of gem engraving.
Dactyliography  The art of writing or engraving upon gems.
Dactyliography  In general, the literature or history of the art.
Dactyliology  That branch of archaeology which has to do with gem engraving.
Dactyliology  That branch of archaeology which has to do with finger rings.
Dactyliomancy  Divination by means of finger rings.
Dactylist  A writer of dactylic verse.
Dactylitis  An inflammatory affection of the fingers.
Dactylology  The art of communicating ideas by certain movements and positions of the fingers; -- a method of conversing practiced by the deaf and dumb.
Dactylomancy  Dactyliomancy.
Dactylonomy  The art of numbering or counting by the fingers.
Dactylopterous  Having the inferior rays of the pectoral fins partially or entirely free, as in the gurnards.
Dactylotheca  The scaly covering of the toes, as in birds.
Dactylozooid  A kind of zooid of Siphonophora which has an elongated or even vermiform body, with one tentacle, but no mouth. See Siphonophora.
Dad  Father; -- a word sometimes used by children.
Daddled  of Dadle
Daddling  of Dadle
Dadle  To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man; hence, to do anything slowly or feebly.
Daddock  The rotten body of a tree.
Daddy  Diminutive of Dad.
Daddy  An arachnidan of the genus Phalangium, and allied genera, having a small body and four pairs of long legs; -- called also harvestman, carter, and grandfather longlegs.
Daddy  A name applied to many species of dipterous insects of the genus Tipula, and allied genera, with slender bodies, and very long, slender legs; the crane fly; -- called also father longlegs.
Dade  To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child while he toddles.
Dade  To walk unsteadily, as a child in leading strings, or just learning to walk; to move slowly.
Dadoes  of Dado
Dado  That part of a pedestal included between the base and the cornice (or surbase); the die. See Illust. of Column.
Dado  In any wall, that part of the basement included between the base and the base course. See Base course, under Base.
Dado  In interior decoration, the lower part of the wall of an apartment when adorned with moldings, or otherwise specially decorated.
Daedal  Alt. of Daedalian
Daedalian  Cunningly or ingeniously formed or working; skillful; artistic; ingenious.
Daedalian  Crafty; deceitful.
Daedalous  Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves.
Daemon  Alt. of Daemonic
Daemonic  See Demon, Demonic.
Daff  To cast aside; to put off; to doff.
Daff  A stupid, blockish fellow; a numskull.
Daff  To act foolishly; to be foolish or sportive; to toy.
Daff  To daunt.
Daffodil  A plant of the genus Asphodelus.
Daffodil  A plant of the genus Narcissus (N. Pseudo-narcissus). It has a bulbous root and beautiful flowers, usually of a yellow hue. Called also daffodilly, daffadilly, daffadowndilly, daffydowndilly, etc.
Daft  Stupid; foolish; idiotic; also, delirious; insane; as, he has gone daft.
Daft  Gay; playful; frolicsome.
Daftness  The quality of being daft.
Dag  A dagger; a poniard.
Dag  A large pistol formerly used.
Dag  The unbranched antler of a young deer.
Dag  A misty shower; dew.
Dag  A loose end; a dangling shred.
Dag  To daggle or bemire.
Dag  To cut into jags or points; to slash; as, to dag a garment.
Dag  To be misty; to drizzle.
Dagger  A short weapon used for stabbing. This is the general term: cf. Poniard, Stiletto, Bowie knife, Dirk, Misericorde, Anlace.
Dagger  A mark of reference in the form of a dagger [/]. It is the second in order when more than one reference occurs on a page; -- called also obelisk.
Dagger  To pierce with a dagger; to stab.
Dagger  A timber placed diagonally in a ship's frame.
Dagges  An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introduced about a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans.
Daggled  of Daggle
Daggling  of Daggle
Daggle  To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; to moisten.
Daggle  To run, go, or trail one's self through water, mud, or slush; to draggle.
Daggle-tail  Alt. of Daggle-tailed
Daggle-tailed  Having the lower ends of garments defiled by trailing in mire or filth; draggle-tailed.
Daggle-tail  A slovenly woman; a slattern; a draggle-tail.
Daglock  A dirty or clotted lock of wool on a sheep; a taglock.
Dagos  of Dago
Dago  A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension, Portuguese or Italian) descent.
Dagoba  A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or some Buddhist saint.
Dagon  The national god of the Philistines, represented with the face and hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish.
Dagon  A slip or piece.
Dagswain  A coarse woolen fabric made of daglocks, or the refuse of wool.
Dag-tailed  Daggle-tailed; having the tail clogged with daglocks.
Daguerrean  Alt. of Daguerreian
Daguerreian  Pertaining to Daguerre, or to his invention of the daguerreotype.
Daguerreotype  An early variety of photograph, produced on a silver plate, or copper plate covered with silver, and rendered sensitive by the action of iodine, or iodine and bromine, on which, after exposure in the camera, the latent image is developed by the vapor of mercury.
Daguerreotype  The process of taking such pictures.
Daguerreotyped  of Daguerreotype
Daguerreotyping  of Daguerreotype
Daguerreotype  To produce or represent by the daguerreotype process, as a picture.
Daguerreotype  To impress with great distinctness; to imprint; to imitate exactly.
Daguerreotyper  Alt. of Daguerreotypist
Daguerreotypist  One who takes daguerreotypes.
Daguerreotypy  The art or process of producing pictures by method of Daguerre.
Dahabeah  A Nile boat constructed on the model of a floating house, having large lateen sails.
Dahlias  of Dahlia
Dahlia  A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of the order Compositae; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerous varieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differ in color.
Dahlin  A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called also inulin. See Inulin.
Dailiness  Daily occurence.
Daily  Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as, daily labor; a daily bulletin.
Dailies  of Daily
Daily  A publication which appears regularly every day; as, the morning dailies.
Daily  Every day; day by day; as, a thing happens daily.
Daimios  of Daimio
Daimio  The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.
Daint  Something of exquisite taste; a dainty.
Daint  Dainty.
Daintified  of Daintify
Daintifying  of Daintify
Daintify  To render dainty, delicate, or fastidious.
Daintily  In a dainty manner; nicely; scrupulously; fastidiously; deliciously; prettily.
Daintiness  The quality of being dainty; nicety; niceness; elegance; delicacy; deliciousness; fastidiousness; squeamishness.
Daintrel  Adelicacy.
Dainties  of Dainty
Dainty  Value; estimation; the gratification or pleasure taken in anything.
Dainty  That which is delicious or delicate; a delicacy.
Dainty  A term of fondness.
Dainty  Rare; valuable; costly.
Dainty  Delicious to the palate; toothsome.
Dainty  Nice; delicate; elegant, in form, manner, or breeding; well-formed; neat; tender.
Dainty  Requiring dainties. Hence: Overnice; hard to please; fastidious; squeamish; scrupulous; ceremonious.
Dairies  of Dairy
Dairy  The place, room, or house where milk is kept, and converted into butter or cheese.
Dairy  That department of farming which is concerned in the production of milk, and its conversion into butter and cheese.
Dairy  A dairy farm.
Dairying  The business of conducting a dairy.
Dairymaid  A female servant whose business is the care of the dairy.
Dairymen  of Dairyman
Dairyman  A man who keeps or takes care of a dairy.
Dairywomen  of Dairywoman
Dairywoman  A woman who attends to a dairy.
Dais  The high or principal table, at the end of a hall, at which the chief guests were seated; also, the chief seat at the high table.
Dais  A platform slightly raised above the floor of a hall or large room, giving distinction to the table and seats placed upon it for the chief guests.
Dais  A canopy over the seat of a person of dignity.
Daisied  Full of daisies; adorned with daisies.
Daisies  of Daisy
Daisy  A genus of low herbs (Bellis), belonging to the family Compositae. The common English and classical daisy is B. prennis, which has a yellow disk and white or pinkish rays.
Daisy  The whiteweed (Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum), the plant commonly called daisy in North America; -- called also oxeye daisy. See Whiteweed.
Dak  Post; mail; also, the mail or postal arrangements; -- spelt also dawk, and dauk.
Daker  Alt. of Dakir
Dakir  A measure of certain commodities by number, usually ten or twelve, but sometimes twenty; as, a daker of hides consisted of ten skins; a daker of gloves of ten pairs.
Daker  The corncrake or land rail.
Dakoit  Alt. of Dakoity
Dakoity  See Dacoit, Dacoity.
Dakota  A subdivision at the base of the cretaceous formation in Western North America; -- so named from the region where the strata were first studied.
Dakotas  An extensive race or stock of Indians, including many tribes, mostly dwelling west of the Mississippi River; -- also, in part, called Sioux.
Dal  Split pulse, esp. of Cajanus Indicus.
Dale  A low place between hills; a vale or valley.
Dale  A trough or spout to carry off water, as from a pump.
Dalesmen  of Dalesman
Dalesman  One living in a dale; -- a term applied particularly to the inhabitants of the valleys in the north of England, Norway, etc.
Dalf  imp. of Delve.
Dalliance  The act of dallying, trifling, or fondling; interchange of caresses; wanton play.
Dalliance  Delay or procrastination.
Dalliance  Entertaining discourse.
Dallier  One who fondles; a trifler; as, dalliers with pleasant words.
Dallop  A tuft or clump.
Dallied  of Dally
Dallying  of Dally
Dally  To waste time in effeminate or voluptuous pleasures, or in idleness; to fool away time; to delay unnecessarily; to tarry; to trifle.
Dally  To interchange caresses, especially with one of the opposite sex; to use fondling; to wanton; to sport.
Dally  To delay unnecessarily; to while away.
Dalmania  A genus of trilobites, of many species, common in the Upper Silurian and Devonian rocks.
Dalmanites  Same as Dalmania.
Dalmatian  Of or pertaining to Dalmatia.
Dalmatica  Alt. of Dalmatic
Dalmatic  A vestment with wide sleeves, and with two stripes, worn at Mass by deacons, and by bishops at pontifical Mass; -- imitated from a dress originally worn in Dalmatia.
Dalmatic  A robe worn on state ocasions, as by English kings at their coronation.
Dal  A direction to go back to the sign / and repeat from thence to the close. See Segno.
Daltonian  One afflicted with color blindness.
Daltonism  Inability to perceive or distinguish certain colors, esp. red; color blindness. It has various forms and degrees. So called from the chemist Dalton, who had this infirmity.
Dam  A female parent; -- used of beasts, especially of quadrupeds; sometimes applied in contempt to a human mother.
Dam  A kind or crowned piece in the game of draughts.
Dam  A barrier to prevent the flow of a liquid; esp., a bank of earth, or wall of any kind, as of masonry or wood, built across a water course, to confine and keep back flowing water.
Dam  A firebrick wall, or a stone, which forms the front of the hearth of a blast furnace.
Dammed  of Dam
Damming  of Dam
Dam  To obstruct or restrain the flow of, by a dam; to confine by constructing a dam, as a stream of water; -- generally used with in or up.
Dam  To shut up; to stop up; to close; to restrain.
Damage  Injury or harm to person, property, or reputation; an inflicted loss of value; detriment; hurt; mischief.
Damage  The estimated reparation in money for detriment or injury sustained; a compensation, recompense, or satisfaction to one party, for a wrong or injury actually done to him by another.
Damages  of Damage
Damaging  of Damage
Damage  To ocassion damage to the soudness, goodness, or value of; to hurt; to injure; to impair.
Damage  To receive damage or harm; to be injured or impaired in soudness or value; as. some colors in /oth damage in sunlight.
Damageable  Capable of being injured or impaired; liable to, or susceptible of, damage; as, a damageable cargo.
Damageable  Hurtful; pernicious.
Damage  Doing injury; trespassing, as cattle.
Daman  A small herbivorous mammal of the genus Hyrax. The species found in Palestine and Syria is Hyrax Syriacus; that of Northern Africa is H. Brucei; -- called also ashkoko, dassy, and rock rabbit. See Cony, and Hyrax.
Damar  See Dammar.
Damascene  Of or relating to Damascus.
Damascene  A kind of plume, now called damson. See Damson.
Damascene  Same as Damask, or Damaskeen, v. t.
Damascus  A city of Syria.
Damask  Damask silk; silk woven with an elaborate pattern of flowers and the like.
Damask  Linen so woven that a pattern in produced by the different directions of the thread, without contrast of color.
Damask  A heavy woolen or worsted stuff with a pattern woven in the same way as the linen damask; -- made for furniture covering and hangings.
Damask  Damask or Damascus steel; also, the peculiar markings or "water" of such steel.
Damask  A deep pink or rose color.
Damask  Pertaining to, or originating at, the city of Damascus; resembling the products or manufactures of Damascus.
Damask  Having the color of the damask rose.
Damasked  of Damask
Damasking  of Damask
Damask  To decorate in a way peculiar to Damascus or attributed to Damascus; particularly: (a) with flowers and rich designs, as silk; (b) with inlaid lines of gold, etc., or with a peculiar marking or "water," as metal. See Damaskeen.
Damaskeen  Alt. of Damasken
Damasken  To decorate, as iron, steel, etc., with a peculiar marking or "water" produced in the process of manufacture, or with designs produced by inlaying or incrusting with another metal, as silver or gold, or by etching, etc., to damask.
Damaskin  A sword of Damask steel.
Damasse  Woven like damask.
Damasse  A damasse fabric, esp. one of linen.
Damassin  A kind of modified damask or brocade.
Dambonite  A white, crystalline, sugary substance obtained from an African caoutchouc.
Dambose  A crystalline variety of fruit sugar obtained from dambonite.
Dame  A mistress of a family, who is a lady; a woman in authority; especially, a lady.
Dame  The mistress of a family in common life, or the mistress of a common school; as, a dame's school.
Dame  A woman in general, esp. an elderly woman.
Dame  A mother; -- applied to human beings and quadrupeds.
Damewort  A cruciferrous plant (Hesperis matronalis), remarkable for its fragrance, especially toward the close of the day; -- called also rocket and dame's violet.
Damiana  A Mexican drug, used as an aphrodisiac.
Damianist  A follower of Damian, patriarch of Alexandria in the 6th century, who held heretical opinions on the doctrine of the Holy Trinity.
Dammar  Alt. of Dammara
Dammara  An oleoresin used in making varnishes; dammar gum; dammara resin. It is obtained from certain resin trees indigenous to the East Indies, esp. Shorea robusta and the dammar pine.
Dammara  A large tree of the order Coniferae, indigenous to the East Indies and Australasia; -- called also Agathis. There are several species.
Damned  of Damn
Damning  of Damn
Damn  To condemn; to declare guilty; to doom; to adjudge to punishment; to sentence; to censure.
Damn  To doom to punishment in the future world; to consign to perdition; to curse.
Damn  To condemn as bad or displeasing, by open expression, as by denuciation, hissing, hooting, etc.
Damn  To invoke damnation; to curse.
Damnability  The quality of being damnable; damnableness.
Damnable  Liable to damnation; deserving, or for which one deserves, to be damned; of a damning nature.
Damnable  Odious; pernicious; detestable.
Damnableness  The state or quality of deserving damnation; execrableness.
Damnably  In a manner to incur severe censure, condemnation, or punishment.
Damnably  Odiously; detestably; excessively.
Damnation  The state of being damned; condemnation; openly expressed disapprobation.
Damnation  Condemnation to everlasting punishment in the future state, or the punishment itself.
Damnation  A sin deserving of everlasting punishment.
Damnatory  Dooming to damnation; condemnatory.
Damned  Sentenced to punishment in a future state; condemned; consigned to perdition.
Damned  Hateful; detestable; abominable.
Damnific  Procuring or causing loss; mischievous; injurious.
Damnification  That which causes damage or loss.
Damnify  To cause loss or damage to; to injure; to impair.
Damning  That damns; damnable; as, damning evidence of guilt.
Damningness  Tendency to bring damnation.
damnum  Harm; detriment, either to character or property.
Damosel  Alt. of Damoiselle
Damosella  Alt. of Damoiselle
Damoiselle  See Damsel.
Damourite  A kind of Muscovite, or potash mica, containing water.
Damp  Moisture; humidity; fog; fogginess; vapor.
Damp  Dejection; depression; cloud of the mind.
Damp  A gaseous product, formed in coal mines, old wells, pints, etc.
Damp  Being in a state between dry and wet; moderately wet; moist; humid.
Damp  Dejected; depressed; sunk.
Damped  of Damp
Damping  of Damp
Damp  To render damp; to moisten; to make humid, or moderately wet; to dampen; as, to damp cloth.
Damp  To put out, as fire; to depress or deject; to deaden; to cloud; to check or restrain, as action or vigor; to make dull; to weaken; to discourage.
Dampened  of Dampen
Dampening  of Dampen
Dampen  To make damp or moist; to make slightly wet.
Dampen  To depress; to check; to make dull; to lessen.
Dampen  To become damp; to deaden.
Damper  That which damps or checks; as: (a) A valve or movable plate in the flue or other part of a stove, furnace, etc., used to check or regulate the draught of air. (b) A contrivance, as in a pianoforte, to deaden vibrations; or, as in other pieces of mechanism, to check some action at a particular time.
Dampish  Moderately damp or moist.
Dampne  To damn.
Dampness  Moderate humidity; moisture; fogginess; moistness.
Damp  To decay and perish through excessive moisture.
Dampy  Somewhat damp.
Dampy  Dejected; gloomy; sorrowful.
Damsel  A young person, either male or female, of noble or gentle extraction; as, Damsel Pepin; Damsel Richard, Prince of Wales.
Damsel  A young unmarried woman; a girl; a maiden.
Damsel  An attachment to a millstone spindle for shaking the hopper.
Damson  A small oval plum of a blue color, the fruit of a variety of the Prunus domestica; -- called also damask plum.
Dan  A title of honor equivalent to master, or sir.
Dan  A small truck or sledge used in coal mines.
Danaide  A water wheel having a vertical axis, and an inner and outer tapering shell, between which are vanes or floats attached usually to both shells, but sometimes only to one.
Danaite  A cobaltiferous variety of arsenopyrite.
Danalite  A mineral occuring in octahedral crystals, also massive, of a reddish color. It is a silicate of iron, zinc manganese, and glucinum, containing sulphur.
Danburite  A borosilicate of lime, first found at Danbury, Conn. It is near the topaz in form.
Danced  of Dance
Dancing  of Dance
Dance  To move with measured steps, or to a musical accompaniment; to go through, either alone or in company with others, with a regulated succession of movements, (commonly) to the sound of music; to trip or leap rhythmically.
Dance  To move nimbly or merrily; to express pleasure by motion; to caper; to frisk; to skip about.
Dance  To cause to dance, or move nimbly or merrily about, or up and down; to dandle.
Dance  The leaping, tripping, or measured stepping of one who dances; an amusement, in which the movements of the persons are regulated by art, in figures and in accord with music.
Dance  A tune by which dancing is regulated, as the minuet, the waltz, the cotillon, etc.
Dancer  One who dances or who practices dancing.
Danceress  A female dancer.
Dancette  Deeply indented; having large teeth; thus, a fess dancette has only three teeth in the whole width of the escutcheon.
Dancing  from Dance.
Dancy  Same as Dancette.
Dandelion  A well-known plant of the genus Taraxacum (T. officinale, formerly called T. Dens-leonis and Leontodos Taraxacum) bearing large, yellow, compound flowers, and deeply notched leaves.
Dander  Dandruff or scurf on the head.
Dander  Anger or vexation; rage.
Dander  To wander about; to saunter; to talk incoherently.
Dandi  A boatman; an oarsman.
Dandie  One of a breed of small terriers; -- called also Dandie Dinmont.
Dandified  Made up like a dandy; having the dress or manners of a dandy; buckish.
Dandified  of Dandify
Dandifying  of Dandify
Dandify  To cause to resemble a dandy; to make dandyish.
Dandiprat  A little fellow; -- in sport or contempt.
Dandiprat  A small coin.
Dandled  of Dandle
Dandling  of Dandle
Dandle  To move up and down on one's knee or in one's arms, in affectionate play, as an infant.
Dandle  To treat with fondness, as if a child; to fondle; to toy with; to pet.
Dandle  To play with; to put off or delay by trifles; to wheedle.
Dandler  One who dandles or fondles.
Dandriff  See Dandruff.
Dandruff  A scurf which forms on the head, and comes off in small or particles.
Dandies  of Dandy
Dandy  One who affects special finery or gives undue attention to dress; a fop; a coxcomb.
Dandy  A sloop or cutter with a jigger on which a lugsail is set.
Dandy  A small sail carried at or near the stern of small boats; -- called also jigger, and mizzen.
Dandy  A dandy roller. See below.
Dandy-cock  Alt. of Dandy-hen
Dandy-hen  A bantam fowl.
Dandyish  Like a dandy.
Dandyism  The manners and dress of a dandy; foppishness.
Dandyise  To make, or to act, like a dandy; to dandify.
Dandyling  A little or insignificant dandy; a contemptible fop.
Dane  A native, or a naturalized inhabitant, of Denmark.
Danegeld  Alt. of Danegelt
Danegelt  An annual tax formerly laid on the English nation to buy off the ravages of Danish invaders, or to maintain forces to oppose them. It afterward became a permanent tax, raised by an assessment, at first of one shilling, afterward of two shillings, upon every hide of land throughout the realm.
Danewort  A fetid European species of elder (Sambucus Ebulus); dwarf elder; wallwort; elderwort; -- called also Daneweed, Dane's weed, and Dane's-blood. [Said to grow on spots where battles were fought against the Danes.]
Dang  imp. of Ding.
Dang  To dash.
Danger  Authority; jurisdiction; control.
Danger  Power to harm; subjection or liability to penalty.
Danger  Exposure to injury, loss, pain, or other evil; peril; risk; insecurity.
Danger  Difficulty; sparingness.
Danger  Coyness; disdainful behavior.
Danger  To endanger.
Dangerful  Full of danger; dangerous.
Dangerless  Free from danger.
Dangerous  Attended or beset with danger; full of risk; perilous; hazardous; unsafe.
Dangerous  Causing danger; ready to do harm or injury.
Dangerous  In a condition of danger, as from illness; threatened with death.
Dangerous  Hard to suit; difficult to please.
Dangerous  Reserved; not affable.
Dangled  of Dangle
Dangling  of Dangle
Dangle  To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion.
Dangle  To cause to dangle; to swing, as something suspended loosely; as, to dangle the feet.
Dangleberry  A dark blue, edible berry with a white bloom, and its shrub (Gaylussacia frondosa) closely allied to the common huckleberry. The bush is also called blue tangle, and is found from New England to Kentucky, and southward.
Dangler  One who dangles about or after others, especially after women; a trifler.
Daniel  A Hebrew prophet distinguished for sagacity and ripeness of judgment in youth; hence, a sagacious and upright judge.
Danish  Belonging to the Danes, or to their language or country.
Danish  The language of the Danes.
Danite  A descendant of Dan; an Israelite of the tribe of Dan.
Danite  One of a secret association of Mormons, bound by an oath to obey the heads of the church in all things.
Dank  Damp; moist; humid; wet.
Dank  Moisture; humidity; water.
Dank  A small silver coin current in Persia.
Dankish  Somewhat dank.
Dannebrog  The ancient battle standard of Denmark, bearing figures of cross and crown.
Danseuse  A professional female dancer; a woman who dances at a public exhibition as in a ballet.
Dansk  Danish.
Dansker  A Dane.
Dantean  Relating to, emanating from or resembling, the poet Dante or his writings.
Dantesque  Dantelike; Dantean.
Danubian  Pertaining to, or bordering on, the river Danube.
Dap  To drop the bait gently on the surface of the water.
Dapatical  Sumptuous in cheer.
Daphne  A genus of diminutive Shrubs, mostly evergreen, and with fragrant blossoms.
Daphne  A nymph of Diana, fabled to have been changed into a laurel tree.
Daphnetin  A colorless crystalline substance, C9H6O4, extracted from daphnin.
Daphnia  A genus of the genus Daphnia.
Daphnin  A dark green bitter resin extracted from the mezereon (Daphne mezereum) and regarded as the essential principle of the plant.
Daphnin  A white, crystalline, bitter substance, regarded as a glucoside, and extracted from Daphne mezereum and D. alpina.
Daphnomancy  Divination by means of the laurel.
Dapifer  One who brings meat to the table; hence, in some countries, the official title of the grand master or steward of the king's or a nobleman's household.
Dapper  Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress or appearance; lively.
Dapperling  A dwarf; a dandiprat.
Dapple  One of the spots on a dappled animal.
Dapple  Alt. of Dappled
Dappled  Marked with spots of different shades of color; spotted; variegated; as, a dapple horse.
Dappled  of Dapple
Dappling  of Dapple
Dapple  To variegate with spots; to spot.
Darbies  Manacles; handcuffs.
Darby  A plasterer's float, having two handles; -- used in smoothing ceilings, etc.
Darbyite  One of the Plymouth Brethren, or of a sect among them; -- so called from John N. Darby, one of the leaders of the Brethren.
Dardanian  Trojan.
Durst  of Dare
Dared  of Dare
Dared  of Dare
Daring  of Dare
Dare  To have adequate or sufficient courage for any purpose; to be bold or venturesome; not to be afraid; to venture.
Dared  of Dare
Daring  of Dare
Dare  To have courage for; to attempt courageously; to venture to do or to undertake.
Dare  To challenge; to provoke; to defy.
Dare  The quality of daring; venturesomeness; boldness; dash.
Dare  Defiance; challenge.
Dare  To lurk; to lie hid.
Dare  To terrify; to daunt.
Dare  A small fish; the dace.
Dare-devil  A reckless fellow. Also used adjectively; as, dare-devil excitement.
Dare-deviltries  of Dare-deviltry
Dare-deviltry  Reckless mischief; the action of a dare-devil.
Dareful  Full of daring or of defiance; adventurous.
Darer  One who dares or defies.
Darg  Alt. of Dargue
Dargue  A day's work; also, a fixed amount of work, whether more or less than that of a day.
Daric  A gold coin of ancient Persia, weighing usually a little more than 128 grains, and bearing on one side the figure of an archer.
Daric  A silver coin of about 86 grains, having the figure of an archer, and hence, in modern times, called a daric.
Daric  Any very pure gold coin.
Daring  Boldness; fearlessness; adventurousness; also, a daring act.
Daring  Bold; fearless; adventurous; as, daring spirits.
Dark  Destitute, or partially destitute, of light; not receiving, reflecting, or radiating light; wholly or partially black, or of some deep shade of color; not light-colored; as, a dark room; a dark day; dark cloth; dark paint; a dark complexion.
Dark  Not clear to the understanding; not easily seen through; obscure; mysterious; hidden.
Dark  Destitute of knowledge and culture; in moral or intellectual darkness; unrefined; ignorant.
Dark  Evincing black or foul traits of character; vile; wicked; atrocious; as, a dark villain; a dark deed.
Dark  Foreboding evil; gloomy; jealous; suspicious.
Dark  Deprived of sight; blind.
Dark  Absence of light; darkness; obscurity; a place where there is little or no light.
Dark  The condition of ignorance; gloom; secrecy.
Dark  A dark shade or dark passage in a painting, engraving, or the like; as, the light and darks are well contrasted.
Dark  To darken to obscure.
Darkened  of Darken
Darkening  of Darken
Darken  To make dark or black; to deprive of light; to obscure; as, a darkened room.
Darken  To render dim; to deprive of vision.
Darken  To cloud, obscure, or perplex; to render less clear or intelligible.
Darken  To cast a gloom upon.
Darken  To make foul; to sully; to tarnish.
Darken  To grow or darker.
Darkener  One who, or that which, darkens.
Darkening  Twilight; gloaming.
Darkful  Full of darkness.
Darkish  Somewhat dark; dusky.
Darkle  To grow dark; to show indistinctly.
Darkling  In the dark.
Darkling  Becoming dark or gloomy; frowing.
Darkling  Dark; gloomy.
Darkly  With imperfect light, clearness, or knowledge; obscurely; dimly; blindly; uncertainly.
Darkly  With a dark, gloomy, cruel, or menacing look.
Darkness  The absence of light; blackness; obscurity; gloom.
Darkness  A state of privacy; secrecy.
Darkness  A state of ignorance or error, especially on moral or religious subjects; hence, wickedness; impurity.
Darkness  Want of clearness or perspicuity; obscurity; as, the darkness of a subject, or of a discussion.
Darkness  A state of distress or trouble.
Darksome  Dark; gloomy; obscure; shaded; cheerless.
Darky  A negro.
Darling  One dearly beloved; a favorite.
Darling  Dearly beloved; regarded with especial kindness and tenderness; favorite.
Darlingtonia  A genus of California pitcher plants consisting of a single species. The long tubular leaves are hooded at the top, and frequently contain many insects drowned in the secretion of the leaves.
Darned  of Darn
Darning  of Darn
Darn  To mend as a rent or hole, with interlacing stitches of yarn or thread by means of a needle; to sew together with yarn or thread.
Darn  A place mended by darning.
Darn  A colloquial euphemism for Damn.
Darnel  Any grass of the genus Lolium, esp. the Lolium temulentum (bearded darnel), the grains of which have been reputed poisonous. Other species, as Lolium perenne (rye grass or ray grass), and its variety L. Italicum (Italian rye grass), are highly esteemed for pasture and for making hay.
Darner  One who mends by darning.
Darnex  Alt. of Darnic
Darnic  Same as Dornick.
Daroo  The Egyptian sycamore (Ficus Sycamorus). See Sycamore.
Darr  The European black tern.
Darraign  Alt. of Darrain
Darrain  To make ready to fight; to array.
Darrain  To fight out; to contest; to decide by combat.
Darrein  Last; as, darrein continuance, the last continuance.
Dart  A pointed missile weapon, intended to be thrown by the hand; a short lance; a javelin; hence, any sharp-pointed missile weapon, as an arrow.
Dart  Anything resembling a dart; anything that pierces or wounds like a dart.
Dart  A spear set as a prize in running.
Dart  A fish; the dace. See Dace.
Darted  of Dart
Darting  of Dart
Dart  To throw with a sudden effort or thrust, as a dart or other missile weapon; to hurl or launch.
Dart  To throw suddenly or rapidly; to send forth; to emit; to shoot; as, the sun darts forth his beams.
Dart  To fly or pass swiftly, as a dart.
Dart  To start and run with velocity; to shoot rapidly along; as, the deer darted from the thicket.
Dartars  A kind of scab or ulceration on the skin of lambs.
Darter  One who darts, or who throw darts; that which darts.
Darter  The snakebird, a water bird of the genus Plotus; -- so called because it darts out its long, snakelike neck at its prey. See Snakebird.
Darter  A small fresh-water etheostomoid fish. The group includes numerous genera and species, all of them American. See Etheostomoid.
Dartingly  Like a dart; rapidly.
Dartle  To pierce or shoot through; to dart repeatedly: -- frequentative of dart.
Dartoic  Of or pertaining to the dartos.
Dartoid  Like the dartos; dartoic; as, dartoid tissue.
Dartos  A thin layer of peculiar contractile tissue directly beneath the skin of the scrotum.
Dartrous  Relating to, or partaking of the nature of, the disease called tetter; herpetic.
Darwinian  Pertaining to Darwin; as, the Darwinian theory, a theory of the manner and cause of the supposed development of living things from certain original forms or elements.
Darwinian  An advocate of Darwinism.
Darwinianism  Darwinism.
Darwinism  The theory or doctrines put forth by Darwin. See above.
Dase  See Daze.
Dasewe  To become dim-sighted; to become dazed or dazzled.
Dashed  of Dash
Dashing  of Dash
Dash  To throw with violence or haste; to cause to strike violently or hastily; -- often used with against.
Dash  To break, as by throwing or by collision; to shatter; to crust; to frustrate; to ruin.
Dash  To put to shame; to confound; to confuse; to abash; to depress.
Dash  To throw in or on in a rapid, careless manner; to mix, reduce, or adulterate, by throwing in something of an inferior quality; to overspread partially; to bespatter; to touch here and there; as, to dash wine with water; to dash paint upon a picture.
Dash  To form or sketch rapidly or carelessly; to execute rapidly, or with careless haste; -- with off; as, to dash off a review or sermon.
Dash  To erase by a stroke; to strike out; knock out; -- with out; as, to dash out a word.
Dash  To rust with violence; to move impetuously; to strike violently; as, the waves dash upon rocks.
Dash  Violent striking together of two bodies; collision; crash.
Dash  A sudden check; abashment; frustration; ruin; as, his hopes received a dash.
Dash  A slight admixture, infusion, or adulteration; a partial overspreading; as, wine with a dash of water; red with a dash of purple.
Dash  A rapid movement, esp. one of short duration; a quick stroke or blow; a sudden onset or rush; as, a bold dash at the enemy; a dash of rain.
Dash  Energy in style or action; animation; spirit.
Dash  A vain show; a blustering parade; a flourish; as, to make or cut a great dash.
Dash  A mark or line [--], in writing or printing, denoting a sudden break, stop, or transition in a sentence, or an abrupt change in its construction, a long or significant pause, or an unexpected or epigrammatic turn of sentiment. Dashes are also sometimes used instead of marks or parenthesis.
Dash  The sign of staccato, a small mark [/] denoting that the note over which it is placed is to be performed in a short, distinct manner.
Dash  The line drawn through a figure in the thorough bass, as a direction to raise the interval a semitone.
Dash  A short, spirited effort or trial of speed upon a race course; -- used in horse racing, when a single trial constitutes the race.
Dashboard  A board placed on the fore part of a carriage, sleigh, or other vehicle, to intercept water, mud, or snow, thrown up by the heels of the horses; -- in England commonly called splashboard.
Dashboard  The float of a paddle wheel.
Dashboard  A screen at the bow af a steam launch to keep off the spray; -- called also sprayboard.
Dasher  That which dashes or agitates; as, the dasher of a churn.
Dasher  A dashboard or splashboard.
Dasher  One who makes an ostentatious parade.
Dashing  Bold; spirited; showy.
Dashingly  Conspicuously; showily.
Dashism  The character of making ostentatious or blustering parade or show.
Dashpot  A pneumatic or hydraulic cushion for a falling weight, as in the valve gear of a steam engine, to prevent shock.
Dashy  Calculated to arrest attention; ostentatiously fashionable; showy.
Dastard  One who meanly shrinks from danger; an arrant coward; a poltroon.
Dastard  Meanly shrinking from danger; cowardly; dastardly.
Dastard  To dastardize.
Dastardized  of Dastardize
Dastardizing  of Dastardize
Dastardize  To make cowardly; to intimidate; to dispirit; as, to dastardize my courage.
Dastardliness  The quality of being dastardly; cowardice; base fear.
Dastardly  Meanly timid; cowardly; base; as, a dastardly outrage.
Dastardness  Dastardliness.
Dastardy  Base timidity; cowardliness.
Daswe  See Dasewe
Dasymeter  An instrument for testing the density of gases, consisting of a thin glass globe, which is weighed in the gas or gases, and then in an atmosphere of known density.
Dasypaedal  Dasypaedic.
Dasypaedes  Those birds whose young are covered with down when hatched.
Dasypaedic  Pertaining to the Dasypaedes; ptilopaedic.
Dasyure  A carnivorous marsupial quadruped of Australia, belonging to the genus Dasyurus. There are several species.
Dasyurine  Pertaining to, or like, the dasyures.
Data  See Datum.
Datable  That may be dated; having a known or ascertainable date.
Dataria  Formerly, a part of the Roman chancery; now, a separate office from which are sent graces or favors, cognizable in foro externo, such as appointments to benefices. The name is derived from the word datum, given or dated (with the indications of the time and place of granting the gift or favor).
Datary  An officer in the pope's court, having charge of the Dataria.
Datary  The office or employment of a datary.
Date  The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself.
Date  That addition to a writing, inscription, coin, etc., which specifies the time (as day, month, and year) when the writing or inscription was given, or executed, or made; as, the date of a letter, of a will, of a deed, of a coin. etc.
Date  The point of time at which a transaction or event takes place, or is appointed to take place; a given point of time; epoch; as, the date of a battle.
Date  Assigned end; conclusion.
Date  Given or assigned length of life; dyration.
Dated  of Date
Dating  of Date
Date  To note the time of writing or executing; to express in an instrument the time of its execution; as, to date a letter, a bond, a deed, or a charter.
Date  To note or fix the time of, as of an event; to give the date of; as, to date the building of the pyramids.
Date  To have beginning; to begin; to be dated or reckoned; -- with from.
Dateless  Without date; having no fixed time.
Dater  One who dates.
Datiscin  A white crystalline glucoside extracted from the bastard hemp (Datisca cannabina).
Dative  Noting the case of a noun which expresses the remoter object, and is generally indicated in English by to or for with the objective.
Dative  In one's gift; capable of being disposed of at will and pleasure, as an office.
Dative  Removable, as distinguished from perpetual; -- said of an officer.
Dative  Given by a magistrate, as distinguished from being cast upon a party by the law.
Dative  The dative case. See Dative, a., 1.
Datively  As a gift.
Datolite  A borosilicate of lime commonly occuring in glassy,, greenish crystals.
Data  of Datum
Datum  Something given or admitted; a fact or principle granted; that upon which an inference or an argument is based; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Datum  The quantities or relations which are assumed to be given in any problem.
Datura  A genus of solanaceous plants, with large funnel-shaped flowers and a four-celled, capsular fruit.
Daturine  Atropine; -- called also daturia and daturina.
Daubed  of Daub
Daubing  of Daub
Daub  To smear with soft, adhesive matter, as pitch, slime, mud, etc.; to plaster; to bedaub; to besmear.
Daub  To paint in a coarse or unskillful manner.
Daub  To cover with a specious or deceitful exterior; to disguise; to conceal.
Daub  To flatter excessively or glossy.
Daub  To put on without taste; to deck gaudily.
Daub  To smear; to play the flatterer.
Daub  A viscous, sticky application; a spot smeared or dabed; a smear.
Daub  A picture coarsely executed.
Dauber  One who, or that which, daubs; especially, a coarse, unskillful painter.
Dauber  A pad or ball of rags, covered over with canvas, for inking plates; a dabber.
Dauber  A low and gross flatterer.
Dauber  The mud wasp; the mud dauber.
Daubery  Alt. of Daubry
Daubry  A daubing; specious coloring; false pretenses.
Daubing  The act of one who daubs; that which is daubed.
Daubing  A rough coat of mortar put upon a wall to give it the appearance of stone; rough-cast.
Daubing  In currying, a mixture of fish oil and tallow worked into leather; -- called also dubbing.
Daubreelite  A sulphide of chromium observed in some meteoric irons.
Dauby  Smeary; viscous; glutinous; adhesive.
Daughters  of Daughter
Daughtren  of Daughter
Daughter  The female offspring of the human species; a female child of any age; -- applied also to the lower animals.
Daughter  A female descendant; a woman.
Daughter  A son's wife; a daughter-in-law.
Daughter  A term of address indicating parental interest.
Daughters-in-law  of Daughter-in-law
Daughter-in-law  The wife of one's son.
Daughterliness  The state of a daughter, or the conduct becoming a daughter.
Daughterly  Becoming a daughter; filial.
Dauk  See Dawk, v. t., to cut or gush.
Daun  A variant of Dan, a title of honor.
Daunted  of Daunt
Daunting  of Daunt
Daunt  To overcome; to conquer.
Daunt  To repress or subdue the courage of; to check by fear of danger; to cow; to intimidate; to dishearten.
Daunter  One who daunts.
Dauntless  Incapable of being daunted; undaunted; bold; fearless; intrepid.
Dauphin  The title of the eldest son of the king of France, and heir to the crown. Since the revolution of 1830, the title has been discontinued.
Dauphiness  Alt. of Dauphine
Dauphine  The title of the wife of the dauphin.
Dauw  The striped quagga, or Burchell's zebra, of South Africa (Asinus Burchellii); -- called also peechi, or peetsi.
Davenport  A kind of small writing table, generally somewhat ornamental, and forming a piece of furniture for the parlor or boudoir.
Davidic  Of or pertaining to David, the king and psalmist of Israel, or to his family.
Davit  A spar formerly used on board of ships, as a crane to hoist the flukes of the anchor to the top of the bow, without injuring the sides of the ship; -- called also the fish davit.
Davit  Curved arms of timber or iron, projecting over a ship's side of stern, having tackle to raise or lower a boat, swing it in on deck, rig it out for lowering, etc.; -- called also boat davits.
Davy  The spirit of the sea; sea devil; -- a term used by sailors.
Davy  See Safety lamp, under Lamp.
Davyne  A variety of nephelite from Vesuvius.
Davyum  A rare metallic element found in platinum ore. It is a white malleable substance. Symbol Da. Atomic weight 154.
Daw  A European bird of the Crow family (Corvus monedula), often nesting in church towers and ruins; a jackdaw.
Daw  To dawn.
Daw  To rouse.
Daw  To daunt; to terrify.
Dawdled  of Dawdle
Dawdling  of Dawdle
Dawdle  To waste time in trifling employment; to trifle; to saunter.
Dawdle  To waste by trifling; as, to dawdle away a whole morning.
Dawdle  A dawdler.
Dawdler  One who wastes time in trifling employments; an idler; a trifler.
Dawe  Day.
Dawish  Like a daw.
Dawk  See Dak.
Dawk  To cut or mark with an incision; to gash.
Dawk  A hollow, crack, or cut, in timber.
Dawned  of Dawn
Dawning  of Dawn
Dawn  To begin to grow light in the morning; to grow light; to break, or begin to appear; as, the day dawns; the morning dawns.
Dawn  To began to give promise; to begin to appear or to expand.
Dawn  The break of day; the first appearance of light in the morning; show of approaching sunrise.
Dawn  First opening or expansion; first appearance; beginning; rise.
Dawsonite  A hydrous carbonate of alumina and soda, occuring in white, bladed crustals.
Day  The time of light, or interval between one night and the next; the time between sunrise and sunset, or from dawn to darkness; hence, the light; sunshine.
Day  The period of the earth's revolution on its axis. -- ordinarily divided into twenty-four hours. It is measured by the interval between two successive transits of a celestial body over the same meridian, and takes a specific name from that of the body. Thus, if this is the sun, the day (the interval between two successive transits of the sun's center over the same meridian) is called a solar day; if it is a star, a sidereal day; if it is the moon, a lunar day. See Civil day, Sidereal day, below.
Day  Those hours, or the daily recurring period, allotted by usage or law for work.
Day  A specified time or period; time, considered with reference to the existence or prominence of a person or thing; age; time.
Day  (Preceded by the) Some day in particular, as some day of contest, some anniversary, etc.
Dayaks  See Dyaks.
Daybook  A journal of accounts; a primary record book in which are recorded the debts and credits, or accounts of the day, in their order, and from which they are transferred to the journal.
Daybreak  The time of the first appearance of light in the morning.
Day-coal  The upper stratum of coal, as nearest the light or surface.
Daydream  A vain fancy speculation; a reverie; a castle in the air; unfounded hope.
Daydreamer  One given to daydreams.
Dayflower  A genus consisting mostly of tropical perennial herbs (Commelina), having ephemeral flowers.
Dayfly  A neuropterous insect of the genus Ephemera and related genera, of many species, and inhabiting fresh water in the larval state; the ephemeral fly; -- so called because it commonly lives but one day in the winged or adult state. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral.
Day-labor  Labor hired or performed by the day.
Day-laborer  One who works by the day; -- usually applied to a farm laborer, or to a workman who does not work at any particular trade.
Daylight  The light of day as opposed to the darkness of night; the light of the sun, as opposed to that of the moon or to artificial light.
Daylight  The eyes.
Day  A genus of plants (Hemerocallis) closely resembling true lilies, but having tuberous rootstocks instead of bulbs. The common species have long narrow leaves and either yellow or tawny-orange flowers.
Day  A genus of plants (Funkia) differing from the last in having ovate veiny leaves, and large white or blue flowers.
Daymaid  A dairymaid.
Daymare  A kind of incubus which occurs during wakefulness, attended by the peculiar pressure on the chest which characterizes nightmare.
Day-net  A net for catching small birds.
Day-peep  The dawn.
Daysman  An umpire or arbiter; a mediator.
Dayspring  The beginning of the day, or first appearance of light; the dawn; hence, the beginning.
Day-star  The morning star; the star which ushers in the day.
Day-star  The sun, as the orb of day.
Daytime  The time during which there is daylight, as distinguished from the night.
Daywoman  A dairymaid.
Dazed  of Daze
Dazing  of Daze
Daze  To stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, or with fear; to confuse; to benumb.
Daze  The state of being dazed; as, he was in a daze.
Daze  A glittering stone.
Dazzled  of Dazzle
Dazzling  of Dazzle
Dazzle  To overpower with light; to confuse the sight of by brilliance of light.
Dazzle  To bewilder or surprise with brilliancy or display of any kind.
Dazzle  To be overpoweringly or intensely bright; to excite admiration by brilliancy.
Dazzle  To be overpowered by light; to be confused by excess of brightness.
Dazzle  A light of dazzling brilliancy.
Dazzlement  Dazzling flash, glare, or burst of light.
Dazzlingly  In a dazzling manner.
De-  A prefix from Latin de down, from, away; as in debark, decline, decease, deduct, decamp. In words from the French it is equivalent to Latin dis-apart, away; or sometimes to de. Cf. Dis-. It is negative and opposite in derange, deform, destroy, etc. It is intensive in deprave, despoil, declare, desolate, etc.
Deacon  An officer in Christian churches appointed to perform certain subordinate duties varying in different communions. In the Roman Catholic and Episcopal churches, a person admitted to the lowest order in the ministry, subordinate to the bishops and priests. In Presbyterian churches, he is subordinate to the minister and elders, and has charge of certain duties connected with the communion service and the care of the poor. In Congregational churches, he is subordinate to the pastor, and has duties as in the Presbyterian church.
Deacon  The chairman of an incorporated company.
Deacon  To read aloud each line of (a psalm or hymn) before singing it, -- usually with off.
Deaconess  A female deacon
Deaconess  One of an order of women whose duties resembled those of deacons.
Deaconess  A woman set apart for church work by a bishop.
Deaconess  A woman chosen as a helper in church work, as among the Congregationalists.
Deaconhood  The state of being a deacon; office of a deacon; deaconship.
Deaconry  See Deaconship.
Deaconship  The office or ministry of a deacon or deaconess.
Dead  Deprived of life; -- opposed to alive and living; reduced to that state of a being in which the organs of motion and life have irrevocably ceased to perform their functions; as, a dead tree; a dead man.
Dead  Destitute of life; inanimate; as, dead matter.
Dead  Resembling death in appearance or quality; without show of life; deathlike; as, a dead sleep.
Dead  Still as death; motionless; inactive; useless; as, dead calm; a dead load or weight.
Dead  So constructed as not to transmit sound; soundless; as, a dead floor.
Dead  Unproductive; bringing no gain; unprofitable; as, dead capital; dead stock in trade.
Dead  Lacking spirit; dull; lusterless; cheerless; as, dead eye; dead fire; dead color, etc.
Dead  Monotonous or unvaried; as, a dead level or pain; a dead wall.
Dead  Sure as death; unerring; fixed; complete; as, a dead shot; a dead certainty.
Dead  Bringing death; deadly.
Dead  Wanting in religious spirit and vitality; as, dead faith; dead works.
Dead  Flat; without gloss; -- said of painting which has been applied purposely to have this effect.
Dead  Not brilliant; not rich; thus, brown is a dead color, as compared with crimson.
Dead  Cut off from the rights of a citizen; deprived of the power of enjoying the rights of property; as, one banished or becoming a monk is civilly dead.
Dead  Not imparting motion or power; as, the dead spindle of a lathe, etc. See Spindle.
Dead  To a degree resembling death; to the last degree; completely; wholly.
Dead  The most quiet or deathlike time; the period of profoundest repose, inertness, or gloom; as, the dead of winter.
Dead  One who is dead; -- commonly used collectively.
Dead  To make dead; to deaden; to deprive of life, force, or vigor.
Dead  To die; to lose life or force.
Dead  See Beat, n., 7.
Deadbeat  Making a beat without recoil; giving indications by a single beat or excursion; -- said of galvanometers and other instruments in which the needle or index moves to the extent of its deflection and stops with little or no further oscillation.
Deadborn  Stillborn.
Deadened  of Deaden
Deadening  of Deaden
Deaden  To make as dead; to impair in vigor, force, activity, or sensation; to lessen the force or acuteness of; to blunt; as, to deaden the natural powers or feelings; to deaden a sound.
Deaden  To lessen the velocity or momentum of; to retard; as, to deaden a ship's headway.
Deaden  To make vapid or spiritless; as, to deaden wine.
Deaden  To deprive of gloss or brilliancy; to obscure; as, to deaden gilding by a coat of size.
Deadener  One who, or that which, deadens or checks.
Dead-eye  A round, flattish, wooden block, encircled by a rope, or an iron band, and pierced with three holes to receive the lanyard; -- used to extend the shrouds and stays, and for other purposes. Called also deadman's eye.
Deadhead  One who receives free tickets for theaters, public conveyances, etc.
Deadhead  A buoy. See under Dead, a.
Dead-hearted  Having a dull, faint heart; spiritless; listless.
Deadhouse  A morgue; a place for the temporary reception and exposure of dead bodies.
Deadish  Somewhat dead, dull, or lifeless; deathlike.
Deadlatch  A kind of latch whose bolt may be so locked by a detent that it can not be opened from the inside by the handle, or from the outside by the latch key.
Deadlight  A strong shutter, made to fit open ports and keep out water in a storm.
Deadlihood  State of the dead.
Deadliness  The quality of being deadly.
Deadlock  A lock which is not self-latching, but requires a key to throw the bolt forward.
Deadlock  A counteraction of things, which produces an entire stoppage; a complete obstruction of action.
Deadly  Capable of causing death; mortal; fatal; destructive; certain or likely to cause death; as, a deadly blow or wound.
Deadly  Aiming or willing to destroy; implacable; desperately hostile; flagitious; as, deadly enemies.
Deadly  Subject to death; mortal.
Deadly  In a manner resembling, or as if produced by, death.
Deadly  In a manner to occasion death; mortally.
Deadly  In an implacable manner; destructively.
Deadly  Extremely.
Deadness  The state of being destitute of life, vigor, spirit, activity, etc.; dullness; inertness; languor; coldness; vapidness; indifference; as, the deadness of a limb, a body, or a tree; the deadness of an eye; deadness of the affections; the deadness of beer or cider; deadness to the world, and the like.
Dead-pay  Pay drawn for soldiers, or others, really dead, whose names are kept on the rolls.
Dead-reckoning  See under Dead, a.
Deads  The substances which inclose the ore on every side.
Dead-stroke  Making a stroke without recoil; deadbeat.
Deadwood  A mass of timbers built into the bow and stern of a vessel to give solidity.
Deadwood  Dead trees or branches; useless material.
Deadworks  The parts of a ship above the water when she is laden.
Deaf  Wanting the sense of hearing, either wholly or in part; unable to perceive sounds; hard of hearing; as, a deaf man.
Deaf  Unwilling to hear or listen; determinedly inattentive; regardless; not to be persuaded as to facts, argument, or exhortation; -- with to; as, deaf to reason.
Deaf  Deprived of the power of hearing; deafened.
Deaf  Obscurely heard; stifled; deadened.
Deaf  Decayed; tasteless; dead; as, a deaf nut; deaf corn.
Deaf  To deafen.
Deafened  of Deafen
Deafening  of Deafen
Deafen  To make deaf; to deprive of the power of hearing; to render incapable of perceiving sounds distinctly.
Deafen  To render impervious to sound, as a partition or floor, by filling the space within with mortar, by lining with paper, etc.
Deafening  The act or process of rendering impervious to sound, as a floor or wall; also, the material with which the spaces are filled in this process; pugging.
Deafly  Without sense of sounds; obscurely.
Deafly  Lonely; solitary.
Deaf-mute  A person who is deaf and dumb; one who, through deprivation or defect of hearing, has either failed the acquire the power of speech, or has lost it.
Deaf-mutism  The condition of being a deaf-mute.
Deafness  Incapacity of perceiving sounds; the state of the organs which prevents the impression which constitute hearing; want of the sense of hearing.
Deafness  Unwillingness to hear; voluntary rejection of what is addressed to the understanding.
Deal  A part or portion; a share; hence, an indefinite quantity, degree, or extent, degree, or extent; as, a deal of time and trouble; a deal of cold.
Deal  The process of dealing cards to the players; also, the portion disturbed.
Deal  Distribution; apportionment.
Deal  An arrangement to attain a desired result by a combination of interested parties; -- applied to stock speculations and political bargains.
Deal  The division of a piece of timber made by sawing; a board or plank; particularly, a board or plank of fir or pine above seven inches in width, and exceeding six feet in length. If narrower than this, it is called a batten; if shorter, a deal end.
Deal  Wood of the pine or fir; as, a floor of deal.
Dealt  of Deal
Dealing  of Deal
Deal  To divide; to separate in portions; hence, to give in portions; to distribute; to bestow successively; -- sometimes with out.
Deal  Specifically: To distribute, as cards, to the players at the commencement of a game; as, to deal the cards; to deal one a jack.
Deal  To make distribution; to share out in portions, as cards to the players.
Deal  To do a distributing or retailing business, as distinguished from that of a manufacturer or producer; to traffic; to trade; to do business; as, he deals in flour.
Deal  To act as an intermediary in business or any affairs; to manage; to make arrangements; -- followed by between or with.
Deal  To conduct one's self; to behave or act in any affair or towards any one; to treat.
Deal  To contend (with); to treat (with), by way of opposition, check, or correction; as, he has turbulent passions to deal with.
Dealbate  To whiten.
Dealbation  Act of bleaching; a whitening.
Dealer  One who deals; one who has to do, or has concern, with others; esp., a trader, a trafficker, a shopkeeper, a broker, or a merchant; as, a dealer in dry goods; a dealer in stocks; a retail dealer.
Dealer  One who distributes cards to the players.
Dealfish  A long, thin fish of the arctic seas (Trachypterus arcticus).
Dealing  The act of one who deals; distribution of anything, as of cards to the players; method of business; traffic; intercourse; transaction; as, to have dealings with a person.
Dealth  Share dealt.
Deambulate  To walk abroad.
Deambulation  A walking abroad; a promenading.
Deambulatory  Going about from place to place; wandering; of or pertaining to a deambulatory.
Deambulatory  A covered place in which to walk; an ambulatory.
Dean  A dignitary or presiding officer in certain ecclesiastical and lay bodies; esp., an ecclesiastical dignitary, subordinate to a bishop.
Dean  The collegiate officer in the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, England, who, besides other duties, has regard to the moral condition of the college.
Dean  The head or presiding officer in the faculty of some colleges or universities.
Dean  A registrar or secretary of the faculty in a department of a college, as in a medical, or theological, or scientific department.
Dean  The chief or senior of a company on occasion of ceremony; as, the dean of the diplomatic corps; -- so called by courtesy.
Deaneries  of Deanery
Deanery  The office or the revenue of a dean. See the Note under Benefice, n., 3.
Deanery  The residence of a dean.
Deanery  The territorial jurisdiction of a dean.
Deanship  The office of a dean.
Dear  Bearing a high price; high-priced; costly; expensive.
Dear  Marked by scarcity or dearth, and exorbitance of price; as, a dear year.
Dear  Highly valued; greatly beloved; cherished; precious.
Dear  Hence, close to the heart; heartfelt; present in mind; engaging the attention.
Dear  Of agreeable things and interests.
Dear  Of disagreeable things and antipathies.
Dear  A dear one; lover; sweetheart.
Dear  Dearly; at a high price.
Dear  To endear.
Dearborn  A four-wheeled carriage, with curtained sides.
Dear-bought  Bought at a high price; as, dear-bought experience.
Deare  variant of Dere, v. t. & n.
Dearie  Same as Deary.
Dearling  A darling.
Dear-loved  Greatly beloved.
Dearly  In a dear manner; with affection; heartily; earnestly; as, to love one dearly.
Dearly  At a high rate or price; grievously.
Dearly  Exquisitely.
Dearn  Secret; lonely; solitary; dreadful.
Dearn  Same as Darn.
Dearness  The quality or state of being dear; costliness; excess of price.
Dearness  Fondness; preciousness; love; tenderness.
Dearth  Scarcity which renders dear; want; lack; specifically, lack of food on account of failure of crops; famine.
Dearticulate  To disjoint.
Dearworth  Precious.
Deary  A dear; a darling.
Deas  See Dais.
Death  The cessation of all vital phenomena without capability of resuscitation, either in animals or plants.
Death  Total privation or loss; extinction; cessation; as, the death of memory.
Death  Manner of dying; act or state of passing from life.
Death  Cause of loss of life.
Death  Personified: The destroyer of life, -- conventionally represented as a skeleton with a scythe.
Death  Danger of death.
Death  Murder; murderous character.
Death  Loss of spiritual life.
Death  Anything so dreadful as to be like death.
Deathbed  The bed in which a person dies; hence, the closing hours of life of one who dies by sickness or the like; the last sickness.
Deathbird  Tengmalm's or Richardson's owl (Nyctale Tengmalmi); -- so called from a superstition of the North American Indians that its note presages death.
Deathblow  A mortal or crushing blow; a stroke or event which kills or destroys.
Deathful  Full of death or slaughter; murderous; destructive; bloody.
Deathful  Liable to undergo death; mortal.
Deathfulness  Appearance of death.
Deathless  Not subject to death, destruction, or extinction; immortal; undying; imperishable; as, deathless beings; deathless fame.
Deathlike  Resembling death.
Deathlike  Deadly.
Deathliness  The quality of being deathly; deadliness.
Deathly  Deadly; fatal; mortal; destructive.
Deathly  Deadly; as, deathly pale or sick.
Death's-head  A naked human skull as the emblem of death; the head of the conventional personification of death.
Death's-herb  The deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna).
Deathsman  An executioner; a headsman or hangman.
Deathward  Toward death.
Deathwatch  A small beetle (Anobium tessellatum and other allied species). By forcibly striking its head against woodwork it makes a ticking sound, which is a call of the sexes to each other, but has been imagined by superstitious people to presage death.
Deathwatch  A small wingless insect, of the family Psocidae, which makes a similar but fainter sound; -- called also deathtick.
Deathwatch  The guard set over a criminal before his execution.
Deaurate  Gilded.
Deaurate  To gild.
Deauration  Act of gilding.
Deave  To stun or stupefy with noise; to deafen.
Debacchate  To rave as a bacchanal.
Debacchation  Wild raving or debauchery.
Debacle  A breaking or bursting forth; a violent rush or flood of waters which breaks down opposing barriers, and hurls forward and disperses blocks of stone and other debris.
Debarred  of Debar
Debarring  of Debar
Debar  To cut off from entrance, as if by a bar or barrier; to preclude; to hinder from approach, entry, or enjoyment; to shut out or exclude; to deny or refuse; -- with from, and sometimes with of.
Debarb  To deprive of the beard.
Debarked  of Debark
Debarking  of Debark
Debark  To go ashore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to put ashore.
Debarkation  Disembarkation.
Debarment  Hindrance from approach; exclusion.
Debarrass  To disembarrass; to relieve.
Debased  of Debase
Debasing  of Debase
Debase  To reduce from a higher to a lower state or grade of worth, dignity, purity, station, etc.; to degrade; to lower; to deteriorate; to abase; as, to debase the character by crime; to debase the mind by frivolity; to debase style by vulgar words.
Debased  Turned upside down from its proper position; inverted; reversed.
Debasement  The act of debasing or the state of being debased.
Debaser  One who, or that which, debases.
Debasingly  In a manner to debase.
Debatable  Liable to be debated; disputable; subject to controversy or contention; open to question or dispute; as, a debatable question.
Debated  of Debate
Debating  of Debate
Debate  To engage in combat for; to strive for.
Debate  To contend for in words or arguments; to strive to maintain by reasoning; to dispute; to contest; to discuss; to argue for and against.
Debate  To engage in strife or combat; to fight.
Debate  To contend in words; to dispute; hence, to deliberate; to consider; to discuss or examine different arguments in the mind; -- often followed by on or upon.
Debate  A fight or fighting; contest; strife.
Debate  Contention in words or arguments; discussion for the purpose of elucidating truth or influencing action; strife in argument; controversy; as, the debates in Parliament or in Congress.
Debate  Subject of discussion.
Debateful  Full of contention; contentious; quarrelsome.
Debatefully  With contention.
Debatement  Controversy; deliberation; debate.
Debater  One who debates; one given to argument; a disputant; a controvertist.
Debating  The act of discussing or arguing; discussion.
Debatingly  In the manner of a debate.
Debauched  of Debauch
Debauching  of Debauch
Debauch  To lead away from purity or excellence; to corrupt in character or principles; to mar; to vitiate; to pollute; to seduce; as, to debauch one's self by intemperance; to debauch a woman; to debauch an army.
Debauch  Excess in eating or drinking; intemperance; drunkenness; lewdness; debauchery.
Debauch  An act or occasion of debauchery.
Debauched  Dissolute; dissipated.
Debauchedly  In a profligate manner.
Debauchedness  The state of being debauched; intemperance.
Debauchee  One who is given to intemperance or bacchanalian excesses; a man habitually lewd; a libertine.
Debaucher  One who debauches or corrupts others; especially, a seducer to lewdness.
Debaucheries  of Debauchery
Debauchery  Corruption of fidelity; seduction from virtue, duty, or allegiance.
Debauchery  Excessive indulgence of the appetites; especially, excessive indulgence of lust; intemperance; sensuality; habitual lewdness.
Debauchment  The act of corrupting; the act of seducing from virtue or duty.
Debauchness  Debauchedness.
Debeige  A kind of woolen or mixed dress goods.
Debel  To conquer.
Debellate  To subdue; to conquer in war.
Debellation  The act of conquering or subduing.
Debenture  A writing acknowledging a debt; a writing or certificate signed by a public officer, as evidence of a debt due to some person; the sum thus due.
Debenture  A customhouse certificate entitling an exporter of imported goods to a drawback of duties paid on their importation.
Debentured  Entitled to drawback or debenture; as, debentured goods.
Debile  Weak.
Debilitant  Diminishing the energy of organs; reducing excitement; as, a debilitant drug.
Debilitated  of Debilitate
Debilitating  of Debilitate
Debilitate  To impair the strength of; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, to debilitate the body by intemperance.
Debilitation  The act or process of debilitating, or the condition of one who is debilitated; weakness.
Debility  The state of being weak; weakness; feebleness; languor.
Debit  A debt; an entry on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; -- mostly used adjectively; as, the debit side of an account.
Debited  of Debit
Debiting  of Debit
Debit  To charge with debt; -- the opposite of, and correlative to, credit; as, to debit a purchaser for the goods sold.
Debit  To enter on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; as, to debit the amount of goods sold.
Debitor  A debtor.
Debituminization  The act of depriving of bitumen.
Debituminize  To deprive of bitumen.
Deblai  The cavity from which the earth for parapets, etc. (remblai), is taken.
Debonair  Characterized by courteousness, affability, or gentleness; of good appearance and manners; graceful; complaisant.
Debonairity  Debonairness.
Debonairly  Courteously; elegantly.
Debonairness  The quality of being debonair; good humor; gentleness; courtesy.
Debosh  To debauch.
Deboshment  Debauchment.
Debouched  of Debouch
Debouching  of Debouch
Debouch  To march out from a wood, defile, or other confined spot, into open ground; to issue.
Debouche  A place for exit; an outlet; hence, a market for goods.
Debouchure  The outward opening of a river, of a valley, or of a strait.
Debris  Broken and detached fragments, taken collectively; especially, fragments detached from a rock or mountain, and piled up at the base.
Debris  Rubbish, especially such as results from the destruction of anything; remains; ruins.
Debruised  Surmounted by an ordinary; as, a lion is debruised when a bend or other ordinary is placed over it, as in the cut.
Debt  That which is due from one person to another, whether money, goods, or services; that which one person is bound to pay to another, or to perform for his benefit; thing owed; obligation; liability.
Debt  A duty neglected or violated; a fault; a sin; a trespass.
Debt  An action at law to recover a certain specified sum of money alleged to be due.
Debted  Indebted; obliged to.
Debtee  One to whom a debt is due; creditor; -- correlative to debtor.
Debtless  Free from debt.
Debtor  One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative to creditor.
Debulliate  To boil over.
Debulition  A bubbling or boiling over.
Deburse  To disburse.
Debuscope  A modification of the kaleidoscope; -- used to reflect images so as to form beautiful designs.
Debut  A beginning or first attempt; hence, a first appearance before the public, as of an actor or public speaker.
Debutant  Alt. of Debutante
Debutante  A person who makes his (or her) first appearance before the public.
Deca-  A prefix, from Gr. de`ka, signifying ten; specifically (Metric System), a prefix signifying the weight or measure that is ten times the principal unit.
Decacerata  The division of Cephalopoda which includes the squids, cuttlefishes, and others having ten arms or tentacles; -- called also Decapoda. [Written also Decacera.] See Dibranchiata.
Decachord  Alt. of Decachordon
Decachordon  An ancient Greek musical instrument of ten strings, resembling the harp.
Decachordon  Something consisting of ten parts.
Esopian  Of or pertaining to Aesop, or in his manner.
Esopic  Same as Aesopian.
Esthesiometer  An instrument to measure the degree of sensation, by determining at how short a distance two impressions upon the skin can be distinguished, and thus to determine whether the condition of tactile sensibility is normal or altered.
Esthetics  The theory or philosophy of taste; the science of the beautiful in nature and art; esp. that which treats of the expression and embodiment of beauty by art.
Embassade  The mission of an ambassador.
Embassade  An embassy.
Embassador  A minister of the highest rank sent to a foreign court to represent there his sovereign or country.
Embassador  An official messenger and representative.
Each  Every one of the two or more individuals composing a number of objects, considered separately from the rest. It is used either with or without a following noun; as, each of you or each one of you.
Each  Every; -- sometimes used interchangeably with every.
Eachwhere  Everywhere.
Eadish  See Eddish.
Eager  Sharp; sour; acid.
Eager  Sharp; keen; bitter; severe.
Eager  Excited by desire in the pursuit of any object; ardent to pursue, perform, or obtain; keenly desirous; hotly longing; earnest; zealous; impetuous; vehement; as, the hounds were eager in the chase.
Eager  Brittle; inflexible; not ductile.
Eager  Same as Eagre.
Eagerly  In an eager manner.
Eagerness  The state or quality of being eager; ardent desire.
Eagerness  Tartness; sourness.
Eagle  Any large, rapacious bird of the Falcon family, esp. of the genera Aquila and Haliaeetus. The eagle is remarkable for strength, size, graceful figure, keenness of vision, and extraordinary flight. The most noted species are the golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetus); the imperial eagle of Europe (A. mogilnik / imperialis); the American bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus); the European sea eagle (H. albicilla); and the great harpy eagle (Thrasaetus harpyia). The figure of the eagle, as the king of birds, is commonly used as an heraldic emblem, and also for standards and emblematic devices. See Bald eagle, Harpy, and Golden eagle.
Eagle  A gold coin of the United States, of the value of ten dollars.
Eagle  A northern constellation, containing Altair, a star of the first magnitude. See Aquila.
Eagle  The figure of an eagle borne as an emblem on the standard of the ancient Romans, or so used upon the seal or standard of any people.
Eagle-eyed  Sharp-sighted as an eagle.
Eagle-sighted  Farsighted and strong-sighted; sharp-sighted.
Eagless  A female or hen eagle.
Eaglestone  A concretionary nodule of clay ironstone, of the size of a walnut or larger, so called by the ancients, who believed that the eagle transported these stones to her nest to facilitate the laying of her eggs; aetites.
Eaglet  A young eagle, or a diminutive eagle.
Eagle-winged  Having the wings of an eagle; swift, or soaring high, like an eagle.
Eaglewood  A kind of fragrant wood. See Agallochum.
Eagrass  See Eddish.
Eagre  A wave, or two or three successive waves, of great height and violence, at flood tide moving up an estuary or river; -- commonly called the bore. See Bore.
Ealderman  Alt. of Ealdorman
Ealdorman  An alderman.
Eale  Ale.
Eame  Uncle.
Ean  To bring forth, as young; to yean.
Eanling  A lamb just brought forth; a yeanling.
Ear  The organ of hearing; the external ear.
Ear  The sense of hearing; the perception of sounds; the power of discriminating between different tones; as, a nice ear for music; -- in the singular only.
Ear  That which resembles in shape or position the ear of an animal; any prominence or projection on an object, -- usually one for support or attachment; a lug; a handle; as, the ears of a tub, a skillet, or dish. The ears of a boat are outside kneepieces near the bow. See Illust. of Bell.
Ear  Same as Acroterium.
Ear  Same as Crossette.
Ear  Privilege of being kindly heard; favor; attention.
Eared  of Ear
Earing  of Ear
Ear  To take in with the ears; to hear.
Ear  The spike or head of any cereal (as, wheat, rye, barley, Indian corn, etc.), containing the kernels.
Ear  To put forth ears in growing; to form ears, as grain; as, this corn ears well.
Ear  To plow or till; to cultivate.
Earable  Arable; tillable.
Earache  Ache or pain in the ear.
Earal  Receiving by the ear.
Ear-bored  Having the ear perforated.
Earcap  A cap or cover to protect the ear from cold.
Earcockle  A disease in wheat, in which the blackened and contracted grain, or ear, is filled with minute worms.
Eardrop  A pendant for the ear; an earring; as, a pair of eardrops.
Eardrop  A species of primrose. See Auricula.
Eardrum  The tympanum. See Illust. of Ear.
Eared  Having (such or so many) ears; -- used in composition; as, long-eared-eared; sharp-eared; full-eared; ten-eared.
Eared  Having external ears; having tufts of feathers resembling ears.
Eariness  Fear or timidity, especially of something supernatural.
Earing  A line used to fasten the upper corners of a sail to the yard or gaff; -- also called head earing.
Earing  A line for hauling the reef cringle to the yard; -- also called reef earing.
Earing  A line fastening the corners of an awning to the rigging or stanchions.
Earing  Coming into ear, as corn.
Earing  A plowing of land.
Earl  A nobleman of England ranking below a marquis, and above a viscount. The rank of an earl corresponds to that of a count (comte) in France, and graf in Germany. Hence the wife of an earl is still called countess. See Count.
Earl  The needlefish.
Earlap  The lobe of the ear.
Earldom  The jurisdiction of an earl; the territorial possessions of an earl.
Earldom  The status, title, or dignity of an earl.
Earldorman  Alderman.
Earlduck  The red-breasted merganser (Merganser serrator).
Earles  Earnest money. Same as Arles penny.
Earless  Without ears; hence, deaf or unwilling to hear.
Earlet  An earring.
Earliness  The state of being early or forward; promptness.
Earl  An officer of state in England who marshals and orders all great ceremonials, takes cognizance of matters relating to honor, arms, and pedigree, and directs the proclamation of peace and war. The court of chivalry was formerly under his jurisdiction, and he is still the head of the herald's office or college of arms.
Earlock  A lock or curl of hair near the ear; a lovelock. See Lovelock.
Early  Soon; in good season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early.
Early  In advance of the usual or appointed time; in good season; prior in time; among or near the first; -- opposed to late; as, the early bird; an early spring; early fruit.
Early  Coming in the first part of a period of time, or among the first of successive acts, events, etc.
Earmark  A mark on the ear of sheep, oxen, dogs, etc., as by cropping or slitting.
Earmark  A mark for identification; a distinguishing mark.
Earmarked  of Earmark
Earmarking  of Earmark
Earmark  To mark, as sheep, by cropping or slitting the ear.
Earn  See Ern, n.
Earned  of Earn
Earning  of Earn
Earn  To merit or deserve, as by labor or service; to do that which entitles one to (a reward, whether the reward is received or not).
Earn  To acquire by labor, service, or performance; to deserve and receive as compensation or wages; as, to earn a good living; to earn honors or laurels.
Earn  To grieve.
Earn  To long; to yearn.
Earn  To curdle, as milk.
Earnest  Seriousness; reality; fixed determination; eagerness; intentness.
Earnest  Ardent in the pursuit of an object; eager to obtain or do; zealous with sincerity; with hearty endeavor; heartfelt; fervent; hearty; -- used in a good sense; as, earnest prayers.
Earnest  Intent; fixed closely; as, earnest attention.
Earnest  Serious; important.
Earnest  To use in earnest.
Earnest  Something given, or a part paid beforehand, as a pledge; pledge; handsel; a token of what is to come.
Earnest  Something of value given by the buyer to the seller, by way of token or pledge, to bind the bargain and prove the sale.
Earnestful  Serious.
Earnestly  In an earnest manner.
Earnestness  The state or quality of being earnest; intentness; anxiety.
Earnful  Full of anxiety or yearning.
Earnings  of Earning
Earning  That which is earned; wages gained by work or services; money earned; -- used commonly in the plural.
Earpick  An instrument for removing wax from the ear.
Ear-piercer  The earwig.
Earreach  Earshot.
Earring  An ornament consisting of a ring passed through the lobe of the ear, with or without a pendant.
Earsh  See Arrish.
Ear-shell  A flattened marine univalve shell of the genus Haliotis; -- called also sea-ear. See Abalone.
Earshot  Reach of the ear; distance at which words may be heard.
Earshrift  A nickname for auricular confession; shrift.
Earsore  An annoyance to the ear.
Ear-splitting  Deafening; disagreeably loud or shrill; as, ear-splitting strains.
Earst  See Erst.
Earth  The globe or planet which we inhabit; the world, in distinction from the sun, moon, or stars. Also, this world as the dwelling place of mortals, in distinction from the dwelling place of spirits.
Earth  The solid materials which make up the globe, in distinction from the air or water; the dry land.
Earth  The softer inorganic matter composing part of the surface of the globe, in distinction from the firm rock; soil of all kinds, including gravel, clay, loam, and the like; sometimes, soil favorable to the growth of plants; the visible surface of the globe; the ground; as, loose earth; rich earth.
Earth  A part of this globe; a region; a country; land.
Earth  Worldly things, as opposed to spiritual things; the pursuits, interests, and allurements of this life.
Earth  The people on the globe.
Earth  Any earthy-looking metallic oxide, as alumina, glucina, zirconia, yttria, and thoria.
Earth  A similar oxide, having a slight alkaline reaction, as lime, magnesia, strontia, baryta.
Earth  A hole in the ground, where an animal hides himself; as, the earth of a fox.
Earthed  of Earth
Earthing  of Earth
Earth  To hide, or cause to hide, in the earth; to chase into a burrow or den.
Earth  To cover with earth or mold; to inter; to bury; -- sometimes with up.
Earth  To burrow.
Earth  A plowing.
Earthbag  A bag filled with earth, used commonly to raise or repair a parapet.
Earthbank  A bank or mound of earth.
Earthboard  The part of a plow, or other implement, that turns over the earth; the moldboard.
Earthborn  Born of the earth; terrigenous; springing originally from the earth; human.
Earthborn  Relating to, or occasioned by, earthly objects.
Earthbred  Low; grovelling; vulgar.
Earthdin  An earthquake.
Earthdrake  A mythical monster of the early Anglo-Saxon literature; a dragon.
Earthen  Made of earth; made of burnt or baked clay, or other like substances; as, an earthen vessel or pipe.
Earthen-hearted  Hard-hearted; sordid; gross.
Earthenware  Vessels and other utensils, ornaments, or the like, made of baked clay. See Crockery, Pottery, Stoneware, and Porcelain.
Earth  A variety of asbestus. See Amianthus.
Earthfork  A pronged fork for turning up the earth.
Earthiness  The quality or state of being earthy, or of containing earth; hence, grossness.
Earthliness  The quality or state of being earthly; worldliness; grossness; perishableness.
Earthling  An inhabitant of the earth; a mortal.
Earthly  Pertaining to the earth; belonging to this world, or to man's existence on the earth; not heavenly or spiritual; carnal; worldly; as, earthly joys; earthly flowers; earthly praise.
Earthly  Of all things on earth; possible; conceivable.
Earthly  Made of earth; earthy.
Earthly  In the manner of the earth or its people; worldly.
Earthly-minded  Having a mind devoted to earthly things; worldly-minded; -- opposed to spiritual-minded.
Earthmad  The earthworm.
Earthnut  A name given to various roots, tubers, or pods grown under or on the ground
Earthnut  The esculent tubers of the umbelliferous plants Bunium flexuosum and Carum Bulbocastanum.
Earthnut  The peanut. See Peanut.
Earthpea  A species of pea (Amphicarpaea monoica). It is a climbing leguminous plant, with hairy underground pods.
Earthquake  A shaking, trembling, or concussion of the earth, due to subterranean causes, often accompanied by a rumbling noise. The wave of shock sometimes traverses half a hemisphere, destroying cities and many thousand lives; -- called also earthdin, earthquave, and earthshock.
Earthquake  Like, or characteristic of, an earthquake; loud; starling.
Earthquave  An earthquake.
Earth  See Earth light, under Earth.
Earthshock  An earthquake.
Earthstar  A curious fungus of the genus Geaster, in which the outer coating splits into the shape of a star, and the inner one forms a ball containing the dustlike spores.
Earth-tongue  A fungus of the genus Geoglossum.
Earthward  Alt. of Earthwards
Earthwards  Toward the earth; -- opposed to heavenward or skyward.
Earthwork  Any construction, whether a temporary breastwork or permanent fortification, for attack or defense, the material of which is chiefly earth.
Earthwork  The operation connected with excavations and embankments of earth in preparing foundations of buildings, in constructing canals, railroads, etc.
Earthwork  An embankment or construction made of earth.
Earthworm  Any worm of the genus Lumbricus and allied genera, found in damp soil. One of the largest and most abundant species in Europe and America is L. terrestris; many others are known; -- called also angleworm and dewworm.
Earthworm  A mean, sordid person; a niggard.
Earthy  Consisting of, or resembling, earth; terrene; earthlike; as, earthy matter.
Earthy  Of or pertaining to the earth or to, this world; earthly; terrestrial; carnal.
Earthy  Gross; low; unrefined.
Earthy  Without luster, or dull and roughish to the touch; as, an earthy fracture.
Earwax  See Cerumen.
Earwig  Any insect of the genus Forticula and related genera, belonging to the order Euplexoptera.
Earwig  In America, any small chilopodous myriapod, esp. of the genus Geophilus.
Earwig  A whisperer of insinuations; a secret counselor.
Earwigged  of Earwig
Earwigging  of Earwig
Earwig  To influence, or attempt to influence, by whispered insinuations or private talk.
Earwitness  A witness by means of his ears; one who is within hearing and does hear; a hearer.
Ease  Satisfaction; pleasure; hence, accommodation; entertainment.
Ease  Freedom from anything that pains or troubles; as: (a) Relief from labor or effort; rest; quiet; relaxation; as, ease of body.
Ease  Freedom from care, solicitude, or anything that annoys or disquiets; tranquillity; peace; comfort; security; as, ease of mind.
Ease  Freedom from constraint, formality, difficulty, embarrassment, etc.; facility; liberty; naturalness; -- said of manner, style, etc.; as, ease of style, of behavior, of address.
Eased  of Ease
Easing  of Ease
Ease  To free from anything that pains, disquiets, or oppresses; to relieve from toil or care; to give rest, repose, or tranquility to; -- often with of; as, to ease of pain; ease the body or mind.
Ease  To render less painful or oppressive; to mitigate; to alleviate.
Ease  To release from pressure or restraint; to move gently; to lift slightly; to shift a little; as, to ease a bar or nut in machinery.
Ease  To entertain; to furnish with accommodations.
Easeful  Full of ease; suitable for affording ease or rest; quiet; comfortable; restful.
Easel  A frame (commonly) of wood serving to hold a canvas upright, or nearly upright, for the painter's convenience or for exhibition.
Easeless  Without ease.
Easement  That which gives ease, relief, or assistance; convenience; accommodation.
Easement  A liberty, privilege, or advantage, which one proprietor has in the estate of another proprietor, distinct from the ownership of the soil, as a way, water course, etc. It is a species of what the civil law calls servitude.
Easement  A curved member instead of an abrupt change of direction, as in a baseboard, hand rail, etc.
Easily  With ease; without difficulty or much effort; as, this task may be easily performed; that event might have been easily foreseen.
Easily  Without pain, anxiety, or disturbance; as, to pass life well and easily.
Easily  Readily; without reluctance; willingly.
Easily  Smoothly; quietly; gently; gracefully; without /umult or discord.
Easily  Without shaking or jolting; commodiously; as, a carriage moves easily.
Easiness  The state or condition of being easy; freedom from distress; rest.
Easiness  Freedom from difficulty; ease; as the easiness of a task.
Easiness  Freedom from emotion; compliance; disposition to yield without opposition; unconcernedness.
Easiness  Freedom from effort, constraint, or formality; -- said of style, manner, etc.
Easiness  Freedom from jolting, jerking, or straining.
East  The point in the heavens where the sun is seen to rise at the equinox, or the corresponding point on the earth; that one of the four cardinal points of the compass which is in a direction at right angles to that of north and south, and which is toward the right hand of one who faces the north; the point directly opposite to the west.
East  The eastern parts of the earth; the regions or countries which lie east of Europe; the orient. In this indefinite sense, the word is applied to Asia Minor, Syria, Chaldea, Persia, India, China, etc.; as, the riches of the East; the diamonds and pearls of the East; the kings of the East.
East  Formerly, the part of the United States east of the Alleghany Mountains, esp. the Eastern, or New England, States; now, commonly, the whole region east of the Mississippi River, esp. that which is north of Maryland and the Ohio River; -- usually with the definite article; as, the commerce of the East is not independent of the agriculture of the West.
East  Toward the rising sun; or toward the point where the sun rises when in the equinoctial; as, the east gate; the east border; the east side; the east wind is a wind that blows from the east.
East  Eastward.
East  To move toward the east; to veer from the north or south toward the east; to orientate.
Easter  An annual church festival commemorating Christ's resurrection, and occurring on Sunday, the second day after Good Friday. It corresponds to the pasha or passover of the Jews, and most nations still give it this name under the various forms of pascha, pasque, paque, or pask.
Easter  The day on which the festival is observed; Easter day.
Easter  To veer to the east; -- said of the wind.
Easterling  A native of a country eastward of another; -- used, by the English, of traders or others from the coasts of the Baltic.
Easterling  A piece of money coined in the east by Richard II. of England.
Easterling  The smew.
Easterling  Relating to the money of the Easterlings, or Baltic traders. See Sterling.
Easterly  Coming from the east; as, it was easterly wind.
Easterly  Situated, directed, or moving toward the east; as, the easterly side of a lake; an easterly course or voyage.
Easterly  Toward, or in the direction of, the east.
Eastern  Situated or dwelling in the east; oriental; as, an eastern gate; Eastern countries.
Eastern  Going toward the east, or in the direction of east; as, an eastern voyage.
Easternmost  Most eastern.
East  Belonging to, or relating to, the East Indies.
East  A native of, or a dweller in, the East Indies.
Easting  The distance measured toward the east between two meridians drawn through the extremities of a course; distance of departure eastward made by a vessel.
East-insular  Relating to the Eastern Islands; East Indian.
Eastward  Alt. of Eastwards
Eastwards  Toward the east; in the direction of east from some point or place; as, New Haven lies eastward from New York.
Easy  At ease; free from pain, trouble, or constraint
Easy  Free from pain, distress, toil, exertion, and the like; quiet; as, the patient is easy.
Easy  Free from care, responsibility, discontent, and the like; not anxious; tranquil; as, an easy mind.
Easy  Free from constraint, harshness, or formality; unconstrained; smooth; as, easy manners; an easy style.
Easy  Not causing, or attended with, pain or disquiet, or much exertion; affording ease or rest; as, an easy carriage; a ship having an easy motion; easy movements, as in dancing.
Easy  Not difficult; requiring little labor or effort; slight; inconsiderable; as, an easy task; an easy victory.
Easy  Causing ease; giving freedom from care or labor; furnishing comfort; commodious; as, easy circumstances; an easy chair or cushion.
Easy  Not making resistance or showing unwillingness; tractable; yielding; complying; ready.
Easy  Moderate; sparing; frugal.
Easy  Not straitened as to money matters; as, the market is easy; -- opposed to tight.
Easy-chair  An armchair for ease or repose.
Easy-going  Moving easily; hence, mild-tempered; ease-loving; inactive.
Eat  of Eat
Eaten  of Eat
Eat  of Eat
Eating  of Eat
Eat  To chew and swallow as food; to devour; -- said especially of food not liquid; as, to eat bread.
Eat  To corrode, as metal, by rust; to consume the flesh, as a cancer; to waste or wear away; to destroy gradually; to cause to disappear.
Eat  To take food; to feed; especially, to take solid, in distinction from liquid, food; to board.
Eat  To taste or relish; as, it eats like tender beef.
Eat  To make one's way slowly.
Eatable  Capable of being eaten; fit to be eaten; proper for food; esculent; edible.
Eatable  Something fit to be eaten.
Eatage  Eatable growth of grass for horses and cattle, esp. that of aftermath.
Eater  One who, or that which, eats.
Eath  Easy or easily.
Eating  The act of tasking food; the act of consuming or corroding.
Eating  Something fit to be eaten; food; as, a peach is good eating.
Eau  Same as Cologne.
Eau  French name for brandy. Cf. Aqua vitae, under Aqua.
Eavedrop  A drop from the eaves; eavesdrop.
Eaves  The edges or lower borders of the roof of a building, which overhang the walls, and cast off the water that falls on the roof.
Eaves  Brow; ridge.
Eaves  Eyelids or eyelashes.
Eavesdrop  To stand under the eaves, near a window or at the door, of a house, to listen and learn what is said within doors; hence, to listen secretly to what is said in private.
Eavesdrop  The water which falls in drops from the eaves of a house.
Eavesdropper  One who stands under the eaves, or near the window or door of a house, to listen; hence, a secret listener.
Eavesdropping  The habit of lurking about dwelling houses, and other places where persons meet fro private intercourse, secretly listening to what is said, and then tattling it abroad. The offense is indictable at common law.
Ebb  The European bunting.
Ebb  The reflux or flowing back of the tide; the return of the tidal wave toward the sea; -- opposed to flood; as, the boats will go out on the ebb.
Ebb  The state or time of passing away; a falling from a better to a worse state; low state or condition; decline; decay.
Ebbed  of Ebb
Ebbing  of Ebb
Ebb  To flow back; to return, as the water of a tide toward the ocean; -- opposed to flow.
Ebb  To return or fall back from a better to a worse state; to decline; to decay; to recede.
Ebb  To cause to flow back.
Ebb  Receding; going out; falling; shallow; low.
Ebb  The reflux of tide water; the retiring tide; -- opposed to flood tide.
Ebionite  One of a sect of heretics, in the first centuries of the church, whose doctrine was a mixture of Judaism and Christianity. They denied the divinity of Christ, regarding him as an inspired messenger, and rejected much of the New Testament.
Ebionitism  The system or doctrine of the Ebionites.
Eblanin  See Pyroxanthin.
Eblis  The prince of the evil spirits; Satan.
Ebon  Consisting of ebony.
Ebon  Like ebony, especially in color; black; dark.
Ebon  Ebony.
Ebonist  One who works in ebony.
Ebonite  A hard, black variety of vulcanite. It may be cut and polished, and is used for many small articles, as combs and buttons, and for insulating material in electric apparatus.
Ebonized  of Ebonize
Ebonizing  of Ebonize
Ebonize  To make black, or stain black, in imitation of ebony; as, to ebonize wood.
Ebonies  of Ebony
Ebony  A hard, heavy, and durable wood, which admits of a fine polish or gloss. The usual color is black, but it also occurs red or green.
Ebony  Made of ebony, or resembling ebony; black; as, an ebony countenance.
Ebracteate  Without bracts.
Ebracteolate  Without bracteoles, or little bracts; -- said of a pedicel or flower stalk.
Ebrauke  Hebrew.
Ebrieties  of Ebriety
Ebriety  Drunkenness; intoxication by spirituous liquors; inebriety.
Ebrillade  A bridle check; a jerk of one rein, given to a horse when he refuses to turn.
Ebriosity  Addiction to drink; habitual drunkenness.
Ebrious  Inclined to drink to excess; intoxicated; tipsy.
Ebulliate  To boil or bubble up.
Ebullience  Alt. of Ebulliency
Ebulliency  A boiling up or over; effervescence.
Ebullient  Boiling up or over; hence, manifesting exhilaration or excitement, as of feeling; effervescing.
Ebullioscope  An instrument for observing the boiling point of liquids, especially for determining the alcoholic strength of a mixture by the temperature at which it boils.
Ebullition  A boiling or bubbling up of a liquid; the motion produced in a liquid by its rapid conversion into vapor.
Ebullition  Effervescence occasioned by fermentation or by any other process which causes the liberation of a gas or an aeriform fluid, as in the mixture of an acid with a carbonated alkali.
Ebullition  A sudden burst or violent display; an outburst; as, an ebullition of anger or ill temper.
Eburin  A composition of dust of ivory or of bone with a cement; -- used for imitations of valuable stones and in making moldings, seals, etc.
Eburnation  A condition of bone cartilage occurring in certain diseases of these tissues, in which they acquire an unnatural density, and come to resemble ivory.
Eburnean  Made of or relating to ivory.
Eburnification  The conversion of certain substances into others which have the appearance or characteristics of ivory.
Eburnine  Of or pertaining to ivory.
Ecardines  An order of Brachiopoda; the Lyopomata. See Brachiopoda.
Ecarte  A game at cards, played usually by two persons, in which the players may discard any or all of the cards dealt and receive others from the pack.
Ecaudate  Without a tail or spur.
Ecaudate  Tailless.
Ecballium  A genus of cucurbitaceous plants consisting of the single species Ecballium agreste (or Elaterium), the squirting cucumber. Its fruit, when ripe, bursts and violently ejects its seeds, together with a mucilaginous juice, from which elaterium, a powerful cathartic medicine, is prepared.
Ecbasis  A figure in which the orator treats of things according to their events consequences.
Ecbatic  Denoting a mere result or consequence, as distinguished from telic, which denotes intention or purpose; thus the phrase / /, if rendered "so that it was fulfilled," is ecbatic; if rendered "in order that it might be." etc., is telic.
Ecbole  A digression in which a person is introduced speaking his own words.
Ecbolic  A drug, as ergot, which by exciting uterine contractions promotes the expulsion of the contents of the uterus.
Ecboline  An alkaloid constituting the active principle of ergot; -- so named from its power of producing abortion.
Eccaleobion  A contrivance for hatching eggs by artificial heat.
Ecce  A picture which represents the Savior as given up to the people by Pilate, and wearing a crown of thorns.
Eccentric  Deviating or departing from the center, or from the line of a circle; as, an eccentric or elliptical orbit; pertaining to deviation from the center or from true circular motion.
Eccentric  Not having the same center; -- said of circles, ellipses, spheres, etc., which, though coinciding, either in whole or in part, as to area or volume, have not the same center; -- opposed to concentric.
Eccentric  Pertaining to an eccentric; as, the eccentric rod in a steam engine.
Eccentric  Not coincident as to motive or end.
Eccentric  Deviating from stated methods, usual practice, or established forms or laws; deviating from an appointed sphere or way; departing from the usual course; irregular; anomalous; odd; as, eccentric conduct.
Eccentric  A circle not having the same center as another contained in some measure within the first.
Eccentric  One who, or that which, deviates from regularity; an anomalous or irregular person or thing.
Eccentric  In the Ptolemaic system, the supposed circular orbit of a planet about the earth, but with the earth not in its center.
Eccentric  A circle described about the center of an elliptical orbit, with half the major axis for radius.
Eccentric  A disk or wheel so arranged upon a shaft that the center of the wheel and that of the shaft do not coincide. It is used for operating valves in steam engines, and for other purposes. The motion derived is precisely that of a crank having the same throw.
Eccentrical  See Eccentric.
Eccentrically  In an eccentric manner.
Eccentricities  of Eccentricity
Eccentricity  The state of being eccentric; deviation from the customary line of conduct; oddity.
Eccentricity  The ratio of the distance between the center and the focus of an ellipse or hyperbola to its semi-transverse axis.
Eccentricity  The ratio of the distance of the center of the orbit of a heavenly body from the center of the body round which it revolves to the semi-transverse axis of the orbit.
Eccentricity  The distance of the center of figure of a body, as of an eccentric, from an axis about which it turns; the throw.
Ecchymose  To discolor by the production of an ecchymosis, or effusion of blood, beneath the skin; -- chiefly used in the passive form; as, the parts were much ecchymosed.
Ecchymoses  of Ecchymosis
Ecchymosis  A livid or black and blue spot, produced by the extravasation or effusion of blood into the areolar tissue from a contusion.
Ecchymotic  Pertaining to ecchymosis.
Eccle  The European green woodpecker; -- also called ecall, eaquall, yaffle.
Ecclesiae  of Ecclesia
Ecclesia  The public legislative assembly of the Athenians.
Ecclesia  A church, either as a body or as a building.
Ecclesial  Ecclesiastical.
Ecclesiarch  An official of the Eastern Church, resembling a sacrist in the Western Church.
Ecclesiast  An ecclesiastic.
Ecclesiast  The Apocryphal book of Ecclesiasticus.
Ecclesiastes  One of the canonical books of the Old Testament.
Ecclesiastic  Of or pertaining to the church. See Ecclesiastical.
Ecclesiastic  A person in holy orders, or consecrated to the service of the church and the ministry of religion; a clergyman; a priest.
Ecclesiastical  Of or pertaining to the church; relating to the organization or government of the church; not secular; as, ecclesiastical affairs or history; ecclesiastical courts.
Ecclesiastically  In an ecclesiastical manner; according ecclesiastical rules.
Ecclesiasticism  Strong attachment to ecclesiastical usages, forms, etc.
Ecclesiasticus  A book of the Apocrypha.
Ecclesiological  Belonging to ecclesiology.
Ecclesiologist  One versed in ecclesiology.
Ecclesiology  The science or theory of church building and decoration.
Eccritic  A remedy which promotes discharges, as an emetic, or a cathartic.
Ecderon  See Ecteron.
Ecdyses  of Ecdysis
Ecdysis  The act of shedding, or casting off, an outer cuticular layer, as in the case of serpents, lobsters, etc.; a coming out; as, the ecdysis of the pupa from its shell; exuviation.
Ecgonine  A colorless, crystalline, nitrogenous base, obtained by the decomposition of cocaine.
Echauguette  A small chamber or place of protection for a sentinel, usually in the form of a projecting turret, or the like. See Castle.
Eche  Each.
Echelon  An arrangement of a body of troops when its divisions are drawn up in parallel lines each to the right or the left of the one in advance of it, like the steps of a ladder in position for climbing. Also used adjectively; as, echelon distance.
Echelon  An arrangement of a fleet in a wedge or V formation.
Echelon  To place in echelon; to station divisions of troops in echelon.
Echelon  To take position in echelon.
Echidna  A monster, half maid and half serpent.
Echidna  A genus of Monotremata found in Australia, Tasmania, and New Guinea. They are toothless and covered with spines; -- called also porcupine ant-eater, and Australian ant-eater.
Echidnine  The clear, viscid fluid secreted by the poison glands of certain serpents; also, a nitrogenous base contained in this, and supposed to be the active poisonous principle of the virus.
Echinate  Alt. of Echinated
Echinated  Set with prickles; prickly, like a hedgehog; bristled; as, an echinated pericarp.
Echinid  Same as Echinoid.
Echinidan  One the Echinoidea.
Echinital  Of, or like, an echinite.
Echinite  A fossil echinoid.
Echinococcus  A parasite of man and of many domestic and wild animals, forming compound cysts or tumors (called hydatid cysts) in various organs, but especially in the liver and lungs, which often cause death. It is the larval stage of the Taenia echinococcus, a small tapeworm peculiar to the dog.
Echinoderm  One of the Echinodermata.
Echinodermal  Relating or belonging to the echinoderms.
Echinodermata  One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom. By many writers it was formerly included in the Radiata.
Echinodermatous  Relating to Echinodermata; echinodermal.
Echinoid  Of or pertaining to the Echinoidea.
Echinoid  One of the Echinoidea.
Echinoidea  The class Echinodermata which includes the sea urchins. They have a calcareous, usually more or less spheroidal or disk-shaped, composed of many united plates, and covered with movable spines. See Spatangoid, Clypeastroid.
Echinozoa  The Echinodermata.
Echinulate  Set with small spines or prickles.
Echini  of Echinus
Echinus  A hedgehog.
Echinus  A genus of echinoderms, including the common edible sea urchin of Europe.
Echinus  The rounded molding forming the bell of the capital of the Grecian Doric style, which is of a peculiar elastic curve. See Entablature.
Echinus  The quarter-round molding (ovolo) of the Roman Doric style. See Illust. of Column
Echinus  A name sometimes given to the egg and anchor or egg and dart molding, because that ornament is often identified with Roman Doric capital. The name probably alludes to the shape of the shell of the sea urchin.
Echiuroidea  A division of Annelida which includes the genus Echiurus and allies. They are often classed among the Gephyrea, and called the armed Gephyreans.
Echoes  of Echo
Echo  A sound reflected from an opposing surface and repeated to the ear of a listener; repercussion of sound; repetition of a sound.
Echo  Fig.: Sympathetic recognition; response; answer.
Echo  A wood or mountain nymph, regarded as repeating, and causing the reverberation of them.
Echo  A nymph, the daughter of Air and Earth, who, for love of Narcissus, pined away until nothing was left of her but her voice.
Echoed  of Echo
Echoing  of Echo
Echoes  of Echo
Echo  To send back (a sound); to repeat in sound; to reverberate.
Echo  To repeat with assent; to respond; to adopt.
Echo  To give an echo; to resound; to be sounded back; as, the hall echoed with acclamations.
Echoer  One who, or that which, echoes.
Echoless  Without echo or response.
Echometer  A graduated scale for measuring the duration of sounds, and determining their different, and the relation of their intervals.
Echometry  The art of measuring the duration of sounds or echoes.
Echometry  The art of constructing vaults to produce echoes.
Echon  Alt. of Echoon
Echoon  Each one.
Echoscope  An instrument for intensifying sounds produced by percussion of the thorax.
Eclair  A kind of frosted cake, containing flavored cream.
Eclaircise  To make clear; to clear up what is obscure or not understood; to explain.
Eclaircissement  The clearing up of anything which is obscure or not easily understood; an explanation.
Eclampsia  A fancied perception of flashes of light, a symptom of epilepsy; hence, epilepsy itself; convulsions.
Eclampsy  Same as Eclampsia.
Eclat  Brilliancy of success or effort; splendor; brilliant show; striking effect; glory; renown.
Eclat  Demonstration of admiration and approbation; applause.
Eclectic  Selecting; choosing (what is true or excellent in doctrines, opinions, etc.) from various sources or systems; as, an eclectic philosopher.
Eclectic  Consisting, or made up, of what is chosen or selected; as, an eclectic method; an eclectic magazine.
Eclectic  One who follows an eclectic method.
Eclectically  In an eclectic manner; by an eclectic method.
Eclecticism  Theory or practice of an eclectic.
Eclegm  A medicine made by mixing oils with sirups.
Eclipse  An interception or obscuration of the light of the sun, moon, or other luminous body, by the intervention of some other body, either between it and the eye, or between the luminous body and that illuminated by it. A lunar eclipse is caused by the moon passing through the earth's shadow; a solar eclipse, by the moon coming between the sun and the observer. A satellite is eclipsed by entering the shadow of its primary. The obscuration of a planet or star by the moon or a planet, though of the nature of an eclipse, is called an occultation. The eclipse of a small portion of the sun by Mercury or Venus is called a transit of the planet.
Eclipse  The loss, usually temporary or partial, of light, brilliancy, luster, honor, consciousness, etc.; obscuration; gloom; darkness.
Eclipsed  of Eclipse
Eclipsing  of Eclipse
Eclipse  To cause the obscuration of; to darken or hide; -- said of a heavenly body; as, the moon eclipses the sun.
Eclipse  To obscure, darken, or extinguish the beauty, luster, honor, etc., of; to sully; to cloud; to throw into the shade by surpassing.
Eclipse  To suffer an eclipse.
Ecliptic  A great circle of the celestial sphere, making an angle with the equinoctial of about 23 28'. It is the apparent path of the sun, or the real path of the earth as seen from the sun.
Ecliptic  A great circle drawn on a terrestrial globe, making an angle of 23 28' with the equator; -- used for illustrating and solving astronomical problems.
Ecliptic  Pertaining to the ecliptic; as, the ecliptic way.
Ecliptic  Pertaining to an eclipse or to eclipses.
Eclogite  A rock consisting of granular red garnet, light green smaragdite, and common hornblende; -- so called in reference to its beauty.
Eclogue  A pastoral poem, in which shepherds are introduced conversing with each other; a bucolic; an idyl; as, the Ecloques of Virgil, from which the modern usage of the word has been established.
Economic  Alt. of Economical
Economical  Pertaining to the household; domestic.
Economical  Relating to domestic economy, or to the management of household affairs.
Economical  Managing with frugality; guarding against waste or unnecessary expense; careful and frugal in management and in expenditure; -- said of character or habits.
Economical  Managed with frugality; not marked with waste or extravagance; frugal; -- said of acts; saving; as, an economical use of money or of time.
Economical  Relating to the means of living, or the resources and wealth of a country; relating to political economy; as, economic purposes; economical truths.
Economical  Regulative; relating to the adaptation of means to an end.
Economically  With economy; with careful management; with prudence in expenditure.
Economics  The science of household affairs, or of domestic management.
Economics  Political economy; the science of the utilities or the useful application of wealth or material resources. See Political economy, under Political.
Economist  One who economizes, or manages domestic or other concerns with frugality; one who expends money, time, or labor, judiciously, and without waste.
Economist  One who is conversant with political economy; a student of economics.
Economization  The act or practice of using to the best effect.
Economized  of Economize
Economizing  of Economize
Economize  To manage with economy; to use with prudence; to expend with frugality; as, to economize one's income.
Economize  To be prudently sparing in expenditure; to be frugal and saving; as, to economize in order to grow rich.
Economizer  One who, or that which, economizes.
Economizer  Specifically: (Steam Boilers) An arrangement of pipes for heating feed water by waste heat in the gases passing to the chimney.
Economies  of Economy
Economy  The management of domestic affairs; the regulation and government of household matters; especially as they concern expense or disbursement; as, a careful economy.
Economy  Orderly arrangement and management of the internal affairs of a state or of any establishment kept up by production and consumption; esp., such management as directly concerns wealth; as, political economy.
Economy  The system of rules and regulations by which anything is managed; orderly system of regulating the distribution and uses of parts, conceived as the result of wise and economical adaptation in the author, whether human or divine; as, the animal or vegetable economy; the economy of a poem; the Jewish economy.
Economy  Thrifty and frugal housekeeping; management without loss or waste; frugality in expenditure; prudence and disposition to save; as, a housekeeper accustomed to economy but not to parsimony.
Ecorche  A manikin, or image, representing an animal, especially man, with the skin removed so that the muscles are exposed for purposes of study.
Ecossaise  A dancing tune in the Scotch style.
Ecostate  Having no ribs or nerves; -- said of a leaf.
Ecoute  One of the small galleries run out in front of the glacis. They serve to annoy the enemy's miners.
Ecphasis  An explicit declaration.
Ecphonema  A breaking out with some interjectional particle.
Ecphoneme  A mark (!) used to indicate an exclamation.
Ecphonesis  An animated or passionate exclamation.
Ecphractic  Serving to dissolve or attenuate viscid matter, and so to remove obstructions; deobstruent.
Ecphractic  An ecphractic medicine.
Ecrasement  The operation performed with an ecraseur.
Ecraseur  An instrument intended to replace the knife in many operations, the parts operated on being severed by the crushing effect produced by the gradual tightening of a steel chain, so that hemorrhage rarely follows.
Ecru  Having the color or appearance of unbleached stuff, as silk, linen, or the like.
Ecstasies  of Ecstasy
Ecstasy  The state of being beside one's self or rapt out of one's self; a state in which the mind is elevated above the reach of ordinary impressions, as when under the influence of overpowering emotion; an extraordinary elevation of the spirit, as when the soul, unconscious of sensible objects, is supposed to contemplate heavenly mysteries.
Ecstasy  Excessive and overmastering joy or enthusiasm; rapture; enthusiastic delight.
Ecstasy  Violent distraction of mind; violent emotion; excessive grief of anxiety; insanity; madness.
Ecstasy  A state which consists in total suspension of sensibility, of voluntary motion, and largely of mental power. The body is erect and inflexible; the pulsation and breathing are not affected.
Ecstasy  To fill ecstasy, or with rapture or enthusiasm.
Ecstatic  Pertaining to, or caused by, ecstasy or excessive emotion; of the nature, or in a state, of ecstasy; as, ecstatic gaze; ecstatic trance.
Ecstatic  Delightful beyond measure; rapturous; ravishing; as, ecstatic bliss or joy.
Ecstatic  An enthusiast.
Ecstatical  Ecstatic.
Ecstatical  Tending to external objects.
Ecstatically  Rapturously; ravishingly.
Ect-  Alt. of Ecto-
Ecto-  A combining form signifying without, outside, external.
Ectad  Toward the outside or surface; -- opposed to entad.
Ectal  Pertaining to, or situated near, the surface; outer; -- opposed to ental.
Ectasia  A dilatation of a hollow organ or of a canal.
Ectasis  The lengthening of a syllable from short to long.
Ectental  Relating to, or connected with, the two primitive germ layers, the ectoderm and ectoderm; as, the "ectental line" or line of juncture of the two layers in the segmentation of the ovum.
Ecteron  The external layer of the skin and mucous membranes; epithelium; ecderon.
Ectethmoid  External to the ethmoid; prefrontal.
Ecthlipsis  The dropping out or suppression from a word of a consonant, with or without a vowel.
Ecthlipsis  The elision of a final m, with the preceding vowel, before a word beginning with a vowel.
Ecthorea  of Ecthoreum
Ecthoreum  The slender, hollow thread of a nettling cell or cnida. See Nettling cell.
Ecthymata  of Ecthyma
Ecthyma  A cutaneous eruption, consisting of large, round pustules, upon an indurated and inflamed base.
Ecto-  See Ect-.
Ectoblast  The outer layer of the blastoderm; the epiblast; the ectoderm.
Ectoblast  The outer envelope of a cell; the cell wall.
Ectobronchia  of Ectobronchium
Ectobronchium  One of the dorsal branches of the main bronchi in the lungs of birds.
Ectocuneriform  Alt. of Ectocuniform
Ectocuniform  One of the bones of the tarsus. See Cuneiform.
Ectocyst  The outside covering of the Bryozoa.
Ectoderm  The outer layer of the blastoderm; epiblast.
Ectoderm  The external skin or outer layer of an animal or plant, this being formed in an animal from the epiblast. See Illust. of Blastoderm.
Ectodermal  Alt. of Ectodermic
Ectodermic  Of or relating to the ectoderm.
Ectolecithal  Having the food yolk, at the commencement of segmentation, in a peripheral position, and the cleavage process confined to the center of the egg; as, ectolecithal ova.
Ectomere  The more transparent cells, which finally become external, in many segmenting ova, as those of mammals.
Ectoparasite  Any parasite which lives on the exterior of animals; -- opposed to endoparasite.
Ectopia  A morbid displacement of parts, especially such as is congenial; as, ectopia of the heart, or of the bladder.
Ectopic  Out of place; congenitally displaced; as, an ectopic organ.
Ectoplasm  The outer transparent layer of protoplasm in a developing ovum.
Ectoplasm  The outer hyaline layer of protoplasm in a vegetable cell.
Ectoplasm  The ectosarc of protozoan.
Ectoplastic  Pertaining to, or composed of, ectoplasm.
Ectoprocta  An order of Bryozoa in which the anus lies outside the circle of tentacles.
Ectopy  Same as Ectopia.
Ectorganism  An external parasitic organism.
Ectosarc  The semisolid external layer of protoplasm in some unicellular organisms, as the amoeba; ectoplasm; exoplasm.
Ectosteal  Of or pertaining to ectostosis; as, ectosteal ossification.
Ectostosis  A process of bone formation in which ossification takes place in the perichondrium and either surrounds or gradually replaces the cartilage.
Ectozoic  See Epizoic.
Ectozoa  of Ectozoon
Ectozoon  See Epizoon.
Ectropion  An unnatural eversion of the eyelids.
Ectropium  Same as Ectropion.
Ectrotic  Having a tendency to prevent the development of anything, especially of a disease.
Ectypal  Copied, reproduced as a molding or cast, in contradistinction from the original model.
Ectype  A copy, as in pottery, of an artist's original work. Hence:
Ectype  A work sculptured in relief, as a cameo, or in bas-relief (in this sense used loosely).
Ectype  A copy from an original; a type of something that has previously existed.
Ectypography  A method of etching in which the design upon the plate is produced in relief.
Ecumenic  Alt. of Ecumenical
Ecumenical  General; universal; in ecclesiastical usage, that which concerns the whole church; as, an ecumenical council.
Ecurie  A stable.
Eczema  An inflammatory disease of the skin, characterized by the presence of redness and itching, an eruption of small vesicles, and the discharge of a watery exudation, which often dries up, leaving the skin covered with crusts; -- called also tetter, milk crust, and salt rheum.
Eczematous  Pertaining to eczema; having the characteristic of eczema.
Edacious  Given to eating; voracious; devouring.
Edacity  Greediness; voracity; ravenousness; rapacity.
Eddas  of Edda
Edda  The religious or mythological book of the old Scandinavian tribes of German origin, containing two collections of Sagas (legends, myths) of the old northern gods and heroes.
Eddaic  Alt. of Eddic
Eddic  Relating to the Eddas; resembling the Eddas.
Edder  An adder or serpent.
Edder  Flexible wood worked into the top of hedge stakes, to bind them together.
Edder  To bind the top interweaving edder; as, to edder a hedge.
Eddish  Aftermath; also, stubble and stubble field. See Arrish.
Eddoes  The tubers of Colocasia antiquorum. See Taro.
Eddies  of Eddy
Eddy  A current of air or water running back, or in a direction contrary to the main current.
Eddy  A current of water or air moving in a circular direction; a whirlpool.
Eddied  of Eddy
Eddying  of Eddy
Eddy  To move as an eddy, or as in an eddy; to move in a circle.
Eddy  To collect as into an eddy.
Edelweiss  A little, perennial, white, woolly plant (Leontopodium alpinum), growing at high elevations in the Alps.
Edema  Same as oedema.
Edematous  Alt. of Edematose
Edematose  Same as oedematous.
Eden  The garden where Adam and Eve first dwelt; hence, a delightful region or residence.
Edenic  Of or pertaining to Eden; paradisaic.
Edenite  A variety of amphibole. See Amphibole.
Edenized  Admitted to a state of paradisaic happiness.
Edental  See Edentate, a.
Edental  One of the Edentata.
Edentalous  See Edentate, a.
Edentata  An order of mammals including the armadillos, sloths, and anteaters; -- called also Bruta. The incisor teeth are rarely developed, and in some groups all the teeth are lacking.
Edentate  Destitute of teeth; as, an edentate quadruped; an edentate leaf.
Edentate  Belonging to the Edentata.
Edentate  One of the Edentata.
Edentated  Same as Edentate, a.
Edentation  A depriving of teeth.
Edentulous  Toothless.
Edge  The thin cutting side of the blade of an instrument; as, the edge of an ax, knife, sword, or scythe. Hence, figuratively, that which cuts as an edge does, or wounds deeply, etc.
Edge  Any sharp terminating border; a margin; a brink; extreme verge; as, the edge of a table, a precipice.
Edge  Sharpness; readiness of fitness to cut; keenness; intenseness of desire.
Edge  The border or part adjacent to the line of division; the beginning or early part; as, in the edge of evening.
Edged  of Edge
Edging  of Edge
Edge  To furnish with an edge as a tool or weapon; to sharpen.
Edge  To shape or dress the edge of, as with a tool.
Edge  To furnish with a fringe or border; as, to edge a dress; to edge a garden with box.
Edge  To make sharp or keen, figuratively; to incite; to exasperate; to goad; to urge or egg on.
Edge  To move by little and little or cautiously, as by pressing forward edgewise; as, edging their chairs forwards.
Edge  To move sideways; to move gradually; as, edge along this way.
Edge  To sail close to the wind.
Edgebone  Same as Aitchbone.
Edgeless  Without an edge; not sharp; blunt; obtuse; as, an edgeless sword or weapon.
Edgelong  In the direction of the edge.
Edgeshot  Having an edge planed, -- said of a board.
Edgeways  Alt. of Edgewise
Edgewise  With the edge towards anything; in the direction of the edge.
Edging  That which forms an edge or border, as the fringe, trimming, etc., of a garment, or a border in a garden.
Edging  The operation of shaping or dressing the edge of anything, as of a piece of metal.
Edgingly  Gradually; gingerly.
Edgy  Easily irritated; sharp; as, an edgy temper.
Edgy  Having some of the forms, such as drapery or the like, too sharply defined.
Edh  The name of the Anglo-Saxon letter /, capital form /. It is sounded as "English th in a similar word: //er, other, d//, doth."
Edibility  Suitableness for being eaten; edibleness.
Edible  Fit to be eaten as food; eatable; esculent; as, edible fishes.
Edible  Anything edible.
Edibleness  Suitableness for being eaten.
Edict  A public command or ordinance by the sovereign power; the proclamation of a law made by an absolute authority, as if by the very act of announcement; a decree; as, the edicts of the Roman emperors; the edicts of the French monarch.
Edictal  Relating to, or consisting of, edicts; as, the Roman edictal law.
Edificant  Building; constructing.
Edification  The act of edifying, or the state of being edified; a building up, especially in a moral or spiritual sense; moral, intellectual, or spiritual improvement; instruction.
Edification  A building or edifice.
Edificatory  Tending to edification.
Edifice  A building; a structure; an architectural fabric; -- chiefly applied to elegant houses, and other large buildings; as, a palace, a church, a statehouse.
Edificial  Pertaining to an edifice; structural.
Edifier  One who builds.
Edifier  One who edifies, builds up, or strengthens another by moral or religious instruction.
Edified  of Edify
Edifying  of Edify
Edify  To build; to construct.
Edify  To instruct and improve, especially in moral and religious knowledge; to teach.
Edify  To teach or persuade.
Edify  To improve.
Edifying  Instructing; improving; as, an edifying conversation.
Edile  See Aedile.
Edileship  The office of aedile.
Edingtonite  A grayish white zeolitic mineral, in tetragonal crystals. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and baryta.
Edited  of Edit
Editing  of Edit
Edit  To superintend the publication of; to revise and prepare for publication; to select, correct, arrange, etc., the matter of, for publication; as, to edit a newspaper.
Edition  A literary work edited and published, as by a certain editor or in a certain manner; as, a good edition of Chaucer; Chalmers' edition of Shakespeare.
Edition  The whole number of copies of a work printed and published at one time; as, the first edition was soon sold.
Edition  See Luxe.
Editioner  An editor.
Editor  One who edits; esp., a person who prepares, superintends, revises, and corrects a book, magazine, or newspaper, etc., for publication.
Editorial  Of or pertaining to an editor; written or sanctioned by an editor; as, editorial labors; editorial remarks.
Editorial  A leading article in a newspaper or magazine; an editorial article; an article published as an expression of the views of the editor.
Editorially  In the manner or character of an editor or of an editorial article.
Editorship  The office or charge of an editor; care and superintendence of a publication.
Editress  A female editor.
Edituate  To guard as a churchwarden does.
Edomite  One of the descendants of Esau or Edom, the brother of Jacob; an Idumean.
Edriophthalma  A group of Crustacea in which the eyes are without stalks; the Arthrostraca.
Edriophthalmous  Pertaining to the Edriophthalma.
Educability  Capability of being educated.
Educable  Capable of being educated.
Educated  of Educate
Educating  of Educate
Educate  To bring /// or guide the powers of, as a child; to develop and cultivate, whether physically, mentally, or morally, but more commonly limited to the mental activities or senses; to expand, strengthen, and discipline, as the mind, a faculty, etc.,; to form and regulate the principles and character of; to prepare and fit for any calling or business by systematic instruction; to cultivate; to train; to instruct; as, to educate a child; to educate the eye or the taste.
Educated  Formed or developed by education; as, an educated man.
Education  The act or process of educating; the result of educating, as determined by the knowledge skill, or discipline of character, acquired; also, the act or process of training by a prescribed or customary course of study or discipline; as, an education for the bar or the pulpit; he has finished his education.
Educational  Of or pertaining to education.
Educationist  One who is versed in the theories of, or who advocates and promotes, education.
Educative  Tending to educate; that gives education; as, an educative process; an educative experience.
Educator  One who educates; a teacher.
Educed  of Educe
Educing  of Educe
Educe  To bring or draw out; to cause to appear; to produce against counter agency or influence; to extract; to evolve; as, to educe a form from matter.
Educible  Capable of being educed.
Educt  That which is educed, as by analysis.
Eduction  The act of drawing out or bringing into view.
Eductive  Tending to draw out; extractive.
Eductor  One who, or that which, brings forth, elicits, or extracts.
Edulcorant  Having a tendency to purify or to sweeten by removing or correcting acidity and acrimony.
Edulcorant  An edulcorant remedy.
Edulcorated  of Edulcorate
Edulcorating  of Edulcorate
Edulcorate  To render sweet; to sweeten; to free from acidity.
Edulcorate  To free from acids, salts, or other soluble substances, by washing; to purify.
Edulcoration  The act of sweetening or edulcorating.
Edulcoration  The act of freeing from acids or any soluble substances, by affusions of water.
Edulcorative  Tending to /weeten or purify by affusions of water.
Edulcorator  A contrivance used to supply small quantities of sweetened liquid, water, etc., to any mixture, or to test tubes, etc.; a dropping bottle.
Edulious  Edible.
Eek  Alt. of Eeke
Eeke  See Eke.
Eel  An elongated fish of many genera and species. The common eels of Europe and America belong to the genus Anguilla. The electrical eel is a species of Gymnotus. The so called vinegar eel is a minute nematode worm. See Conger eel, Electric eel, and Gymnotus.
Eelbuck  An eelpot or eel basket.
Eelfare  A brood of eels.
Eelgrass  A plant (Zostera marina), with very long and narrow leaves, growing abundantly in shallow bays along the North Atlantic coast.
Eel-mother  The eelpout.
Eelpot  A boxlike structure with funnel-shaped traps for catching eels; an eelbuck.
Eelpout  A European fish (Zoarces viviparus), remarkable for producing living young; -- called also greenbone, guffer, bard, and Maroona eel. Also, an American species (Z. anguillaris), -- called also mutton fish, and, erroneously, congo eel, ling, and lamper eel. Both are edible, but of little value.
Eelpout  A fresh-water fish, the burbot.
Eelspear  A spear with barbed forks for spearing eels.
E'en  A contraction for even. See Even.
Een  The old plural of Eye.
E'er  A contraction for ever. See Ever.
Eerie  Alt. of Eery
Eery  Serving to inspire fear, esp. a dread of seeing ghosts; wild; weird; as, eerie stories.
Eery  Affected with fear; affrighted.
Eerily  In a strange, unearthly way.
Eerisome  Causing fear; eerie.
Eet  of Eat.
Effable  Capable of being uttered or explained; utterable.
Effaced  of Efface
Effacing  of Efface
Efface  To cause to disappear (as anything impresses or inscribed upon a surface) by rubbing out, striking out, etc.; to erase; to render illegible or indiscernible; as, to efface the letters on a monument, or the inscription on a coin.
Efface  To destroy, as a mental impression; to wear away.
Effaceable  Capable of being effaced.
Effacement  The act if effacing; also, the result of the act.
Effascinate  To charm; to bewitch.
Effascination  A charming; state of being bewitched or deluded.
Effect  Execution; performance; realization; operation; as, the law goes into effect in May.
Effect  Manifestation; expression; sign.
Effect  In general: That which is produced by an agent or cause; the event which follows immediately from an antecedent, called the cause; result; consequence; outcome; fruit; as, the effect of luxury.
Effect  Impression left on the mind; sensation produced.
Effect  Power to produce results; efficiency; force; importance; account; as, to speak with effect.
Effect  Consequence intended; purpose; meaning; general intent; -- with to.
Effect  The purport; the sum and substance.
Effect  Reality; actual meaning; fact, as distinguished from mere appearance.
Effect  Goods; movables; personal estate; -- sometimes used to embrace real as well as personal property; as, the people escaped from the town with their effects.
Effected  of Effect
Effecting  of Effect
Effect  To produce, as a cause or agent; to cause to be.
Effect  To bring to pass; to execute; to enforce; to achieve; to accomplish.
Effecter  One who effects.
Effectible  Capable of being done or achieved; practicable; feasible.
Effection  Creation; a doing.
Effective  Having the power to produce an effect or effects; producing a decided or decisive effect; efficient; serviceable; operative; as, an effective force, remedy, speech; the effective men in a regiment.
Effective  That which produces a given effect; a cause.
Effective  One who is capable of active service.
Effective  Specie or coin, as distinguished from paper currency; -- a term used in many parts of Europe.
Effectively  With effect; powerfully; completely; thoroughly.
Effectiveness  The quality of being effective.
Effectless  Without effect or advantage; useless; bootless.
Effector  An effecter.
Effectual  Producing, or having adequate power or force to produce, an intended effect; adequate; efficient; operative; decisive.
Effectually  With effect; efficaciously.
Effectually  Actually; in effect.
Effectualness  The quality of being effectual.
Effectuated  of Effectuate
Effectuating  of Effectuate
Effectuate  To bring to pass; to effect; to achieve; to accomplish; to fulfill.
Effectuation  Act of effectuating.
Effectuose  Alt. of Effectuous
Effectuous  Effective.
Effectuously  Effectively.
Effeminacies  of Effeminacy
Effeminacy  Characteristic quality of a woman, such as softness, luxuriousness, delicacy, or weakness, which is unbecoming a man; womanish delicacy or softness; -- used reproachfully of men.
Effeminate  Having some characteristic of a woman, as delicacy, luxuriousness, etc.; soft or delicate to an unmanly degree; womanish; weak.
Effeminate  Womanlike; womanly; tender; -- in a good sense.
Effeminated  of Effeminate
Effeminating  of Effeminate
Effeminate  To make womanish; to make soft and delicate; to weaken.
Effeminate  To grow womanish or weak.
Effeminately  In an effeminate or womanish manner; weakly; softly; delicately.
Effeminately  By means of a woman; by the power or art of a woman.
Effeminateness  The state of being effeminate; unmanly softness.
Effemination  Effeminacy; womanishness.
Effeminize  To make effeminate.
Effendi  Master; sir; -- a title of a Turkish state official and man of learning, especially one learned in the law.
Efferent  Conveying outward, or discharging; -- applied to certain blood vessels, lymphatics, nerves, etc.
Efferent  Conveyed outward; as, efferent impulses, i. e., such as are conveyed by the motor or efferent nerves from the central nervous organ outwards; -- opposed to afferent.
Efferent  An efferent duct or stream.
Efferous  Like a wild beast; fierce.
Effervesced  of Effervesce
Effervescing  of Effervesce
Effervesce  To be in a state of natural ebullition; to bubble and hiss, as fermenting liquors, or any fluid, when some part escapes in a gaseous form.
Effervesce  To exhibit, in lively natural expression, feelings that can not be repressed or concealed; as, to effervesce with joy or merriment.
Effervescence  Alt. of Effervescency
Effervescency  A kind of natural ebullition; that commotion of a fluid which takes place when some part of the mass flies off in a gaseous form, producing innumerable small bubbles; as, the effervescence of a carbonate with citric acid.
Effervescent  Gently boiling or bubbling, by means of the disengagement of gas
Effervescible  Capable of effervescing.
Effervescive  Tending to produce effervescence.
Effet  The common newt; -- called also asker, eft, evat, and ewt.
Effete  No longer capable of producing young, as an animal, or fruit, as the earth; hence, worn out with age; exhausted of energy; incapable of efficient action; no longer productive; barren; sterile.
Efficacious  Possessing the quality of being effective; productive of, or powerful to produce, the effect intended; as, an efficacious law.
Efficacity  Efficacy.
Efficacy  Power to produce effects; operation or energy of an agent or force; production of the effect intended; as, the efficacy of medicine in counteracting disease; the efficacy of prayer.
Efficience  Alt. of Efficiency
Efficiency  The quality of being efficient or producing an effect or effects; efficient power; effectual agency.
Efficiency  The ratio of useful work to energy expended.
Efficient  Causing effects; producing results; that makes the effect to be what it is; actively operative; not inactive, slack, or incapable; characterized by energetic and useful activity; as, an efficient officer, power.
Efficient  An efficient cause; a prime mover.
Efficiently  With effect; effectively.
Effierce  To make fierce.
Effigial  Relating to an effigy.
Effigiate  To form as an effigy; hence, to fashion; to adapt.
Effigiation  The act of forming in resemblance; an effigy.
Effigies  See Effigy.
Effigies  of Effigy
Effigy  The image, likeness, or representation of a person, whether a full figure, or a part; an imitative figure; -- commonly applied to sculptured likenesses, as those on monuments, or to those of the heads of princes on coins and medals, sometimes applied to portraits.
Efflagitate  To ask urgently.
Efflate  To fill with breath; to puff up.
Efflation  The act of filling with wind; a breathing or puffing out; a puff, as of wind.
Effloresced  of Effloresce
Efflorescing  of Effloresce
Effloresce  To blossom forth.
Effloresce  To change on the surface, or throughout, to a whitish, mealy, or crystalline powder, from a gradual decomposition, esp. from the loss of water, on simple exposure to the air; as, Glauber's salts, and many others, effloresce.
Effloresce  To become covered with a whitish crust or light crystallization, from a slow chemical change between some of the ingredients of the matter covered and an acid proceeding commonly from an external source; as, the walls of limestone caverns sometimes effloresce with nitrate of calcium in consequence of the action in consequence of nitric acid formed in the atmosphere.
Efflorescence  Flowering, or state of flowering; the blooming of flowers; blowth.
Efflorescence  A redness of the skin; eruption, as in rash, measles, smallpox, scarlatina, etc.
Efflorescence  The formation of the whitish powder or crust on the surface of efflorescing bodies, as salts, etc.
Efflorescence  The powder or crust thus formed.
Efflorescency  The state or quality of being efflorescent; efflorescence.
Efflorescent  That effloresces, or is liable to effloresce on exposure; as, an efflorescent salt.
Efflorescent  Covered with an efflorescence.
Efflower  To remove the epidermis of (a skin) with a concave knife, blunt in its middle part, -- as in making chamois leather.
Effluence  A flowing out, or emanation.
Effluence  That which flows or issues from any body or substance; issue; efflux.
Effluency  Effluence.
Effluent  Flowing out; as, effluent beams.
Effluent  A stream that flows out of another stream or lake.
Effluviable  Capable of being given off as an effluvium.
Effluvial  Belonging to effluvia.
Effluviate  To give forth effluvium.
Effluvia  of Effluvium
Effluvium  Subtile or invisible emanation; exhalation perceived by the sense of smell; especially, noisome or noxious exhalation; as, the effluvium from diseased or putrefying bodies, or from ill drainage.
Efflux  The act or process of flowing out, or issuing forth; effusion; outflow; as, the efflux of matter from an ulcer; the efflux of men's piety.
Efflux  That which flows out; emanation; effluence.
Efflux  To run out; to flow forth; to pass away.
Effluxion  The act of flowing out; effusion.
Effluxion  That which flows out; effluvium; emanation.
Effodient  Digging up.
Efforced  of Efforce
Efforcing  of Efforce
Efforce  To force; to constrain; to compel to yield.
Efform  To form; to shape.
Efformation  The act of giving shape or form.
Effort  An exertion of strength or power, whether physical or mental, in performing an act or aiming at an object; more or less strenuous endeavor; struggle directed to the accomplishment of an object; as, an effort to scale a wall.
Effort  A force acting on a body in the direction of its motion.
Effort  To stimulate.
Effortless  Making no effort.
Effossion  A digging out or up.
Effranchise  To enfranchise.
Effray  To frighten; to scare.
Effrayable  Frightful.
Effrenation  Unbridled license; unruliness.
Effront  To give assurance to.
Effronteries  of Effrontery
Effrontery  Impudence or boldness in confronting or in transgressing the bounds of duty or decorum; insulting presumptuousness; shameless boldness; barefaced assurance.
Effrontit  Marked by impudence.
Effrontuously  Impudently.
Effulged  of Effulge
Effulging  of Effulge
Effulge  To cause to shine with abundance of light; to radiate; to beam.
Effulge  To shine forth; to beam.
Effulgence  The state of being effulgent; extreme brilliancy; a flood of light; great luster or brightness; splendor.
Effulgent  Diffusing a flood of light; shining; luminous; beaming; bright; splendid.
Effulgently  In an effulgent manner.
Effumability  The capability of flying off in fumes or vapor.
Effume  To breathe or puff out.
Effund  To pour out.
Effuse  Poured out freely; profuse.
Effuse  Disposed to pour out freely; prodigal.
Effuse  Spreading loosely, especially on one side; as, an effuse inflorescence.
Effuse  Having the lips, or edges, of the aperture abruptly spreading; -- said of certain shells.
Effuse  Effusion; loss.
Effused  of Effuse
Effusing  of Effuse
Effuse  To pour out like a stream or freely; to cause to exude; to shed.
Effuse  To emanate; to issue.
Effusion  The act of pouring out; as, effusion of water, of blood, of grace, of words, and the like.
Effusion  That which is poured out, literally or figuratively.
Effusion  The escape of a fluid out of its natural vessel, either by rupture of the vessel, or by exudation through its walls. It may pass into the substance of an organ, or issue upon a free surface.
Effusion  The liquid escaping or exuded.
Effusive  Pouring out; pouring forth freely.
Efreet  See Afrit.
Eft  A European lizard of the genus Seps.
Eft  A salamander, esp. the European smooth newt (Triton punctatus).
Eft  Again; afterwards; soon; quickly.
Eftsoon  Alt. of Eftsoons
Eftsoons  Again; anew; a second time; at once; speedily.
Egad  An exclamation expressing exultation or surprise, etc.
Egal  Equal; impartial.
Egality  Equality.
Egean  See Aegean.
Egence  The state of needing, or of suffering a natural want.
Eger  Alt. of Egre
Egre  Sharp; bitter; acid; sour.
Eger  An impetuous flood; a bore. See Eagre.
Egerminate  To germinate.
Egest  To cast or throw out; to void, as excrement; to excrete, as the indigestible matter of the food; in an extended sense, to excrete by the lungs, skin, or kidneys.
Egesta  That which is egested or thrown off from the body by the various excretory channels; excrements; -- opposed to ingesta.
Egestion  Act or process of egesting; a voiding.
Egg  The oval or roundish body laid by domestic poultry and other birds, tortoises, etc. It consists of a yolk, usually surrounded by the "white" or albumen, and inclosed in a shell or strong membrane.
Egg  A simple cell, from the development of which the young of animals are formed; ovum; germ cell.
Egg  Anything resembling an egg in form.
Egged  of Egg
Egging  of Egg
Egg  To urge on; to instigate; to incite/
Eggar  Any bombycid moth of the genera Eriogaster and Lasiocampa; as, the oak eggar (L. roboris) of Europe.
Egg-bird  A species of tern, esp. the sooty tern (Sterna fuliginosa) of the West Indies. In the Bahama Islands the name is applied to the tropic bird, Phaethon flavirostris.
Egg-cup  A cup used for holding an egg, at table.
Eggement  Instigation; incitement.
Egger  One who gathers eggs; an eggler.
Egger  One who eggs or incites.
Eggery  A place where eggs are deposited (as by sea birds) or kept; a nest of eggs.
Egg-glass  A small sandglass, running about three minutes, for marking time in boiling eggs; also, a small glass for holding an egg, at table.
Egghot  A kind of posset made of eggs, brandy, sugar, and ale.
Eggler  One who gathers, or deals in, eggs.
Eggnog  A drink consisting of eggs beaten up with sugar, milk, and (usually) wine or spirits.
Eggplant  A plant (Solanum Melongena), of East Indian origin, allied to the tomato, and bearing a large, smooth, edible fruit, shaped somewhat like an egg; mad-apple.
Egg-shaped  Resembling an egg in form; ovoid.
Eggshell  The shell or exterior covering of an egg. Also used figuratively for anything resembling an eggshell.
Eggshell  A smooth, white, marine, gastropod shell of the genus Ovulum, resembling an egg in form.
Egg  A variety of squash with small egg-shaped fruit.
Eghen  Eyes.
Egilopical  Pertaining to, of the nature of, or affected with, an aegilops, or tumor in the corner of the eye.
Egilops  See Aegilops.
Eglandulose  Alt. of Eglandulous
Eglandulous  Destitute of glands.
Eglantine  A species of rose (Rosa Eglanteria), with fragrant foliage and flowers of various colors.
Eglantine  The sweetbrier (R. rubiginosa).
Eglatere  Eglantine.
Egling  The European perch when two years old.
Eglomerate  To unwind, as a thread from a ball.
Ego  The conscious and permanent subject of all psychical experiences, whether held to be directly known or the product of reflective thought; -- opposed to non-ego.
Egoical  Pertaining to egoism.
Egoism  The doctrine of certain extreme adherents or disciples of Descartes and Johann Gottlieb Fichte, which finds all the elements of knowledge in the ego and the relations which it implies or provides for.
Egoism  Excessive love and thought of self; the habit of regarding one's self as the center of every interest; selfishness; -- opposed to altruism.
Egoist  One given overmuch to egoism or thoughts of self.
Egoist  A believer in egoism.
Egoistic  Alt. of Egoistical
Egoistical  Pertaining to egoism; imbued with egoism or excessive thoughts of self; self-loving.
Egoistically  In an egoistic manner.
Egoity  Personality.
Egomism  Egoism.
Egophonic  Belonging to, or resembling, egophony.
Egophony  The sound of a patient's voice so modified as to resemble the bleating of a goat, heard on applying the ear to the chest in certain diseases within its cavity, as in pleurisy with effusion.
Egotheism  The deification of self.
Egotism  The practice of too frequently using the word I; hence, a speaking or writing overmuch of one's self; self-exaltation; self-praise; the act or practice of magnifying one's self or parading one's own doings. The word is also used in the sense of egoism.
Egotist  One addicted to egotism; one who speaks much of himself or magnifies his own achievements or affairs.
Egotistic  Alt. of Egotistical
Egotistical  Addicted to, or manifesting, egotism.
Egotistically  With egotism.
Egotized  of Egotize
Egotizing  of Egotize
Egotize  To talk or write as an egotist.
Egranulose  Having no granules, as chlorophyll in certain conditions.
Egre  See Eager, and Eagre.
Egregious  Surpassing; extraordinary; distinguished (in a bad sense); -- formerly used with words importing a good quality, but now joined with words having a bad sense; as, an egregious rascal; an egregious ass; an egregious mistake.
Egregiously  Greatly; enormously; shamefully; as, egregiously cheated.
Egregiousness  The state of being egregious.
Egremoin  Agrimony (Agrimonia Eupatoria).
Egress  The act of going out or leaving, or the power to leave; departure.
Egress  The passing off from the sun's disk of an inferior planet, in a transit.
Egress  To go out; to depart; to leave.
Egression  The act of going; egress.
Egressor  One who goes out.
Egret  The name of several species of herons which bear plumes on the back. They are generally white. Among the best known species are the American egret (Ardea, / Herodias, egretta); the great egret (A. alba); the little egret (A. garzetta), of Europe; and the American snowy egret (A. candidissima).
Egret  A plume or tuft of feathers worn as a part of a headdress, or anything imitating such an ornament; an aigrette.
Egret  The flying feathery or hairy crown of seeds or achenes, as the down of the thistle.
Egret  A kind of ape.
Egrette  Same as Egret, n., 2.
Egrimony  The herb agrimony.
Egrimony  Sorrow.
Egriot  A kind of sour cherry.
Egritude  Sickness; ailment; sorrow.
Egyptian  Pertaining to Egypt, in Africa.
Egyptian  A native, or one of the people, of Egypt; also, the Egyptian language.
Egyptian  A gypsy.
Egyptized  of Egyptize
Egyptizing  of Egyptize
Egyptize  To give an Egyptian character or appearance to.
Egyptologer  Alt. of Egyptologist
Egyptologist  One skilled in the antiquities of Egypt; a student of Egyptology.
Egyptological  Of, pertaining to, or devoted to, Egyptology.
Egyptology  The science or study of Egyptian antiquities, esp. the hieroglyphics.
Ehlite  A mineral of a green color and pearly luster; a hydrous phosphate of copper.
Eider  Any species of sea duck of the genus Somateria, esp. Somateria mollissima, which breeds in the northern parts of Europe and America, and lines its nest with fine down (taken from its own body) which is an article of commerce; -- called also eider duck. The American eider (S. Dresseri), the king eider (S. spectabilis), and the spectacled eider (Arctonetta Fischeri) are related species.
Eidograph  An instrument for copying drawings on the same or a different scale; a form of the pantograph.
Eidolon  An image or representation; a form; a phantom; an apparition.
Eigh  An exclamation expressing delight.
Eight  An island in a river; an ait.
Eight  Seven and one; as, eight years.
Eight  The number greater by a unit than seven; eight units or objects.
Eight  A symbol representing eight units, as 8 or viii.
Eighteen  Eight and ten; as, eighteen pounds.
Eighteen  The number greater by a unit than seventeen; eighteen units or objects.
Eighteen  A symbol denoting eighteen units, as 18 or xviii.
Eighteenmo  See Octodecimo.
Eighteenth  Next in order after the seventeenth.
Eighteenth  Consisting of one of eighteen equal parts or divisions of a thing.
Eighteenth  The quotient of a unit divided by eighteen; one of eighteen equal parts or divisions.
Eighteenth  The eighth after the tenth.
Eightetethe  Eighteenth.
Eightfold  Eight times a quantity.
Fabaceous  Having the nature of a bean; like a bean.
Fabellae  of Fabella
Fabella  One of the small sesamoid bones situated behind the condyles of the femur, in some mammals.
Fabian  Of, pertaining to, or in the manner of, the Roman general, Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus; cautious; dilatory; avoiding a decisive contest.
Fable  A Feigned story or tale, intended to instruct or amuse; a fictitious narration intended to enforce some useful truth or precept; an apologue. See the Note under Apologue.
Fable  The plot, story, or connected series of events, forming the subject of an epic or dramatic poem.
Fable  Any story told to excite wonder; common talk; the theme of talk.
Fable  Fiction; untruth; falsehood.
Fabled  of Fable
Fabling  of Fable
Fable  To compose fables; hence, to write or speak fiction ; to write or utter what is not true.
Fable  To feign; to invent; to devise, and speak of, as true or real; to tell of falsely.
Fabler  A writer of fables; a fabulist; a dealer in untruths or falsehoods.
Fabliaux  of Fabliau
Fabliau  One of the metrical tales of the Trouveres, or early poets of the north of France.
Fabric  The structure of anything; the manner in which the parts of a thing are united; workmanship; texture; make; as cloth of a beautiful fabric.
Fabric  That which is fabricated
Fabric  Framework; structure; edifice; building.
Fabric  Cloth of any kind that is woven or knit from fibers, either vegetable or animal; manufactured cloth; as, silks or other fabrics.
Fabric  The act of constructing; construction.
Fabric  Any system or structure consisting of connected parts; as, the fabric of the universe.
Fabricked  of Fabric
Fabricking  of Fabric
Fabric  To frame; to build; to construct.
Fabricant  One who fabricates; a manufacturer.
Fabricated  of Fabricate
Fabricating  of Fabricate
Fabricate  To form into a whole by uniting its parts; to frame; to construct; to build; as, to fabricate a bridge or ship.
Fabricate  To form by art and labor; to manufacture; to produce; as, to fabricate woolens.
Fabricate  To invent and form; to forge; to devise falsely; as, to fabricate a lie or story.
Fabrication  The act of fabricating, framing, or constructing; construction; manufacture; as, the fabrication of a bridge, a church, or a government.
Fabrication  That which is fabricated; a falsehood; as, the story is doubtless a fabrication.
Fabricator  One who fabricates; one who constructs or makes.
Fabricatress  A woman who fabricates.
Fabrile  Pertaining to a workman, or to work in stone, metal, wood etc.; as, fabrile skill.
Fabulist  One who invents or writes fables.
Fabulized  of Fabulize
Fabulizing  of Fabulize
Fabulize  To invent, compose, or relate fables or fictions.
Fabulosity  Fabulousness.
Fabulosity  A fabulous or fictitious story.
Fabulous  Feigned, as a story or fable; related in fable; devised; invented; not real; fictitious; as, a fabulous description; a fabulous hero.
Fabulous  Passing belief; exceedingly great; as, a fabulous price.
Faburden  A species of counterpoint with a drone bass.
Faburden  A succession of chords of the sixth.
Faburden  A monotonous refrain.
Fac  A large ornamental letter used, esp. by the early printers, at the commencement of the chapters and other divisions of a book.
Facade  The front of a building; esp., the principal front, having some architectural pretensions. Thus a church is said to have its facade unfinished, though the interior may be in use.
Face  The exterior form or appearance of anything; that part which presents itself to the view; especially, the front or upper part or surface; that which particularly offers itself to the view of a spectator.
Face  That part of a body, having several sides, which may be seen from one point, or which is presented toward a certain direction; one of the bounding planes of a solid; as, a cube has six faces.
Face  The principal dressed surface of a plate, disk, or pulley; the principal flat surface of a part or object.
Face  That part of the acting surface of a cog in a cog wheel, which projects beyond the pitch line.
Face  The width of a pulley, or the length of a cog from end to end; as, a pulley or cog wheel of ten inches face.
Face  The upper surface, or the character upon the surface, of a type, plate, etc.
Face  The style or cut of a type or font of type.
Face  Outside appearance; surface show; look; external aspect, whether natural, assumed, or acquired.
Face  That part of the head, esp. of man, in which the eyes, cheeks, nose, and mouth are situated; visage; countenance.
Face  Cast of features; expression of countenance; look; air; appearance.
Face  Ten degrees in extent of a sign of the zodiac.
Face  Maintenance of the countenance free from abashment or confusion; confidence; boldness; shamelessness; effrontery.
Face  Presence; sight; front; as in the phrases, before the face of, in the immediate presence of; in the face of, before, in, or against the front of; as, to fly in the face of danger; to the face of, directly to; from the face of, from the presence of.
Face  Mode of regard, whether favorable or unfavorable; favor or anger; mostly in Scriptural phrases.
Face  The end or wall of the tunnel, drift, or excavation, at which work is progressing or was last done.
Face  The exact amount expressed on a bill, note, bond, or other mercantile paper, without any addition for interest or reduction for discount.
Faced  of Face
Facing  of Face
Face  To meet in front; to oppose with firmness; to resist, or to meet for the purpose of stopping or opposing; to confront; to encounter; as, to face an enemy in the field of battle.
Face  To Confront impudently; to bully.
Face  To stand opposite to; to stand with the face or front toward; to front upon; as, the apartments of the general faced the park.
Face  To cover in front, for ornament, protection, etc.; to put a facing upon; as, a building faced with marble.
Face  To line near the edge, esp. with a different material; as, to face the front of a coat, or the bottom of a dress.
Face  To cover with better, or better appearing, material than the mass consists of, for purpose of deception, as the surface of a box of tea, a barrel of sugar, etc.
Face  To make the surface of (anything) flat or smooth; to dress the face of (a stone, a casting, etc.); esp., in turning, to shape or smooth the flat surface of, as distinguished from the cylindrical surface.
Face  To cause to turn or present a face or front, as in a particular direction.
Face  To carry a false appearance; to play the hypocrite.
Face  To turn the face; as, to face to the right or left.
Face  To present a face or front.
Faced  Having (such) a face, or (so many) faces; as, smooth-faced, two-faced.
Faser  One who faces; one who puts on a false show; a bold-faced person.
Faser  A blow in the face, as in boxing; hence, any severe or stunning check or defeat, as in controversy.
Facet  A little face; a small, plane surface; as, the facets of a diamond.
Facet  A smooth circumscribed surface; as, the articular facet of a bone.
Facet  The narrow plane surface between flutings of a column.
Facet  One of the numerous small eyes which make up the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans.
Faceted  of Facet
Faceting  of Facet
Facet  To cut facets or small faces upon; as, to facet a diamond.
Facete  Facetious; witty; humorous.
Faceted  Having facets.
Facetiae  Witty or humorous writings or saying; witticisms; merry conceits.
Facetious  Given to wit and good humor; merry; sportive; jocular; as, a facetious companion.
Facetious  Characterized by wit and pleasantry; exciting laughter; as, a facetious story or reply.
Facette  See Facet, n.
Facework  The material of the outside or front side, as of a wall or building; facing.
Facia  See Fascia.
Facial  Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, or nerve.
Faciend  The multiplicand. See Facient, 2.
Facient  One who does anything, good or bad; a doer; an agent.
Facient  One of the variables of a quantic as distinguished from a coefficient.
Facient  The multiplier.
Facies  The anterior part of the head; the face.
Facies  The general aspect or habit of a species, or group of species, esp. with reference to its adaptation to its environment.
Facies  The face of a bird, or the front of the head, excluding the bill.
Facile  Easy to be done or performed: not difficult; performable or attainable with little labor.
Facile  Easy to be surmounted or removed; easily conquerable; readily mastered.
Facile  Easy of access or converse; mild; courteous; not haughty, austere, or distant; affable; complaisant.
Facile  Easily persuaded to good or bad; yielding; ductile to a fault; pliant; flexible.
Facile  Ready; quick; expert; as, he is facile in expedients; he wields a facile pen.
Facilitated  of Facilitate
Facilitating  of Facilitate
Facilitate  To make easy or less difficult; to free from difficulty or impediment; to lessen the labor of; as, to facilitate the execution of a task.
Facilitation  The act of facilitating or making easy.
Facilities  of Facility
Facility  The quality of being easily performed; freedom from difficulty; ease; as, the facility of an operation.
Facility  Ease in performance; readiness proceeding from skill or use; dexterity; as, practice gives a wonderful facility in executing works of art.
Facility  Easiness to be persuaded; readiness or compliance; -- usually in a bad sense; pliancy.
Facility  Easiness of access; complaisance; affability.
Facility  That which promotes the ease of any action or course of conduct; advantage; aid; assistance; -- usually in the plural; as, special facilities for study.
Facing  A covering in front, for ornament or other purpose; an exterior covering or sheathing; as, the facing of an earthen slope, sea wall, etc. , to strengthen it or to protect or adorn the exposed surface.
Facing  A lining placed near the edge of a garment for ornament or protection.
Facing  The finishing of any face of a wall with material different from that of which it is chiefly composed, or the coating or material so used.
Facing  A powdered substance, as charcoal, bituminous coal, ect., applied to the face of a mold, or mixed with the sand that forms it, to give a fine smooth surface to the casting.
Facing  The collar and cuffs of a military coat; -- commonly of a color different from that of the coat.
Facing  The movement of soldiers by turning on their heels to the right, left, or about; -- chiefly in the pl.
Facingly  In a facing manner or position.
Facinorous  Atrociously wicked.
Facound  Speech; eloquence.
Facsimiles  of Facsimile
Facsimile  A copy of anything made, either so as to be deceptive or so as to give every part and detail of the original; an exact copy or likeness.
Facsimile  To make a facsimile of.
Fact  A doing, making, or preparing.
Fact  An effect produced or achieved; anything done or that comes to pass; an act; an event; a circumstance.
Fact  Reality; actuality; truth; as, he, in fact, excelled all the rest; the fact is, he was beaten.
Fact  The assertion or statement of a thing done or existing; sometimes, even when false, improperly put, by a transfer of meaning, for the thing done, or supposed to be done; a thing supposed or asserted to be done; as, history abounds with false facts.
Faction  One of the divisions or parties of charioteers (distinguished by their colors) in the games of the circus.
Faction  A party, in political society, combined or acting in union, in opposition to the government, or state; -- usually applied to a minority, but it may be applied to a majority; a combination or clique of partisans of any kind, acting for their own interests, especially if greedy, clamorous, and reckless of the common good.
Faction  Tumult; discord; dissension.
Factionary  Belonging to a faction; being a partisan; taking sides.
Factioner  One of a faction.
Factionist  One who promotes faction.
Factious  Given to faction; addicted to form parties and raise dissensions, in opposition to government or the common good; turbulent; seditious; prone to clamor against public measures or men; -- said of persons.
Factious  Pertaining to faction; proceeding from faction; indicating, or characterized by, faction; -- said of acts or expressions; as, factious quarrels.
Factitious  Made by art, in distinction from what is produced by nature; artificial; sham; formed by, or adapted to, an artificial or conventional, in distinction from a natural, standard or rule; not natural; as, factitious cinnabar or jewels; a factitious taste.
Factitive  Causing; causative.
Factitive  Pertaining to that relation which is proper when the act, as of a transitive verb, is not merely received by an object, but produces some change in the object, as when we say, He made the water wine.
Factive  Making; having power to make.
Facto  In fact; by the act or fact.
Factor  One who transacts business for another; an agent; a substitute; especially, a mercantile agent who buys and sells goods and transacts business for others in commission; a commission merchant or consignee. He may be a home factor or a foreign factor. He may buy and sell in his own name, and he is intrusted with the possession and control of the goods; and in these respects he differs from a broker.
Factor  A steward or bailiff of an estate.
Factor  One of the elements or quantities which, when multiplied together, from a product.
Factor  One of the elements, circumstances, or influences which contribute to produce a result; a constituent.
Factored  of Factor
Factoring  of Factor
Factor  To resolve (a quantity) into its factors.
Factorage  The allowance given to a factor, as a compensation for his services; -- called also a commission.
Factoress  A factor who is a woman.
Factorial  Of or pertaining to a factory.
Factorial  Related to factorials.
Factorial  A name given to the factors of a continued product when the former are derivable from one and the same function F(x) by successively imparting a constant increment or decrement h to the independent variable. Thus the product F(x).F(x + h).F(x + 2h) . . . F[x + (n-1)h] is called a factorial term, and its several factors take the name of factorials.
Factorial  The product of the consecutive numbers from unity up to any given number.
Factoring  The act of resolving into factors.
Factorized  of Factorize
Factorizing  of Factorize
Factorize  To give warning to; -- said of a person in whose hands the effects of another are attached, the warning being to the effect that he shall not pay the money or deliver the property of the defendant in his hands to him, but appear and answer the suit of the plaintiff.
Factorize  To attach (the effects of a debtor) in the hands of a third person ; to garnish. See Garnish.
Factorship  The business of a factor.
Factories  of Factory
Factory  A house or place where factors, or commercial agents, reside, to transact business for their employers.
Factory  The body of factors in any place; as, a chaplain to a British factory.
Factory  A building, or collection of buildings, appropriated to the manufacture of goods; the place where workmen are employed in fabricating goods, wares, or utensils; a manufactory; as, a cotton factory.
Factotums  of Factotum
Factotum  A person employed to do all kinds of work or business.
Factual  Relating to, or containing, facts.
Facta  of Factum
Factum  A man's own act and deed
Factum  Anything stated and made certain.
Factum  The due execution of a will, including everything necessary to its validity.
Factum  The product. See Facient, 2.
Facture  The act or manner of making or doing anything; -- now used of a literary, musical, or pictorial production.
Facture  An invoice or bill of parcels.
Faculae  Groups of small shining spots on the surface of the sun which are brighter than the other parts of the photosphere. They are generally seen in the neighborhood of the dark spots, and are supposed to be elevated portions of the photosphere.
Facular  Of or pertaining to the faculae.
Faculties  of Faculty
Faculty  Ability to act or perform, whether inborn or cultivated; capacity for any natural function; especially, an original mental power or capacity for any of the well-known classes of mental activity; psychical or soul capacity; capacity for any of the leading kinds of soul activity, as knowledge, feeling, volition; intellectual endowment or gift; power; as, faculties of the mind or the soul.
Faculty  Special mental endowment; characteristic knack.
Faculty  Power; prerogative or attribute of office.
Faculty  Privilege or permission, granted by favor or indulgence, to do a particular thing; authority; license; dispensation.
Faculty  A body of a men to whom any specific right or privilege is granted; formerly, the graduates in any of the four departments of a university or college (Philosophy, Law, Medicine, or Theology), to whom was granted the right of teaching (profitendi or docendi) in the department in which they had studied; at present, the members of a profession itself; as, the medical faculty; the legal faculty, ect.
Faculty  The body of person to whom are intrusted the government and instruction of a college or university, or of one of its departments; the president, professors, and tutors in a college.
Facund  Eloquent.
Facundious  Eloquement; full of words.
Facundity  Eloquence; readiness of speech.
Fad  A hobby ; freak; whim.
Faddle  To trifle; to toy.
Faddle  To fondle; to dandle.
Fade  Weak; insipid; tasteless; commonplace.
Faded  of Fade
Fading  of Fade
Fade  To become fade; to grow weak; to lose strength; to decay; to perish gradually; to wither, as a plant.
Fade  To lose freshness, color, or brightness; to become faint in hue or tint; hence, to be wanting in color.
Fade  To sink away; to disappear gradually; to grow dim; to vanish.
Fade  To cause to wither; to deprive of freshness or vigor; to wear away.
Faded  That has lost freshness, color, or brightness; grown dim.
Fadedly  In a faded manner.
Fadeless  Not liable to fade; unfading.
Fader  Father.
Fadge  To fit; to suit; to agree.
Fadge  A small flat loaf or thick cake; also, a fagot.
Fading  Losing freshness, color, brightness, or vigor.
Fading  Loss of color, freshness, or vigor.
Fading  An Irish dance; also, the burden of a song.
Fadme  A fathom.
Fady  Faded.
Faecal  See Fecal.
Faeces  Excrement; ordure; also, settlings; sediment after infusion or distillation.
Faecula  See Fecula.
Faery  Fairy.
Faffle  To stammer.
Fag  A knot or coarse part in cloth.
Fagged  of Fag
Fagging  of Fag
Fag  To become weary; to tire.
Fag  To labor to wearness; to work hard; to drudge.
Fag  To act as a fag, or perform menial services or drudgery, for another, as in some English schools.
Fag  To tire by labor; to exhaust; as, he was almost fagged out.
Fag  Anything that fatigues.
Fagend  An end of poorer quality, or in a spoiled condition, as the coarser end of a web of cloth, the untwisted end of a rope, ect.
Fagend  The refuse or meaner part of anything.
Fagging  Laborious drudgery; esp., the acting as a drudge for another at an English school.
Fagot  A bundle of sticks, twigs, or small branches of trees, used for fuel, for raising batteries, filling ditches, or other purposes in fortification; a fascine.
Fagot  A bundle of pieces of wrought iron to be worked over into bars or other shapes by rolling or hammering at a welding heat; a pile.
Fagot  A bassoon. See Fagotto.
Fagot  A person hired to take the place of another at the muster of a company.
Fagot  An old shriveled woman.
Fagoted  of Fagot
Fagoting  of Fagot
Fagot  To make a fagot of; to bind together in a fagot or bundle; also, to collect promiscuously.
Fagotto  The bassoon; -- so called from being divided into parts for ease of carriage, making, as it were, a small fagot.
Faham  The leaves of an orchid (Angraecum fragrans), of the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius, used (in France) as a substitute for Chinese tea.
Fahlband  A stratum in crystalline rock, containing metallic sulphides.
Fahlerz  Alt. of Fahlband
Fahlband  Same as Tetrahedrite.
Fahlunite  A hydration of iolite.
Fahrenheit  Conforming to the scale used by Gabriel Daniel Fahrenheit in the graduation of his thermometer; of or relating to Fahrenheit's thermometric scale.
Fahrenheit  The Fahrenheit termometer or scale.
Faience  Glazed earthenware; esp., that which is decorated in color.
Failed  of Fail
Failing  of Fail
Fail  To be wanting; to fall short; to be or become deficient in any measure or degree up to total absence; to cease to be furnished in the usual or expected manner, or to be altogether cut off from supply; to be lacking; as, streams fail; crops fail.
Fail  To be affected with want; to come short; to lack; to be deficient or unprovided; -- used with of.
Fail  To fall away; to become diminished; to decline; to decay; to sink.
Fail  To deteriorate in respect to vigor, activity, resources, etc.; to become weaker; as, a sick man fails.
Fail  To perish; to die; -- used of a person.
Fail  To be found wanting with respect to an action or a duty to be performed, a result to be secured, etc.; to miss; not to fulfill expectation.
Fail  To come short of a result or object aimed at or desired ; to be baffled or frusrated.
Fail  To err in judgment; to be mistaken.
Fail  To become unable to meet one's engagements; especially, to be unable to pay one's debts or discharge one's business obligation; to become bankrupt or insolvent.
Fail  To be wanting to ; to be insufficient for; to disappoint; to desert.
Fail  To miss of attaining; to lose.
Fail  Miscarriage; failure; deficiency; fault; -- mostly superseded by failure or failing, except in the phrase without fail.
Fail  Death; decease.
Failance  Fault; failure; omission.
Failing  A failing short; a becoming deficient; failure; deficiency; imperfection; weakness; lapse; fault; infirmity; as, a mental failing.
Failing  The act of becoming insolvent of bankrupt.
Faille  A soft silk, heavier than a foulard and not glossy.
Failure  Cessation of supply, or total defect; a failing; deficiency; as, failure of rain; failure of crops.
Failure  Omission; nonperformance; as, the failure to keep a promise.
Failure  Want of success; the state of having failed.
Failure  Decay, or defect from decay; deterioration; as, the failure of memory or of sight.
Failure  A becoming insolvent; bankruptcy; suspension of payment; as, failure in business.
Failure  A failing; a slight fault.
Fain  Well-pleased; glad; apt; wont; fond; inclined.
Fain  Satisfied; contented; also, constrained.
Fain  With joy; gladly; -- with wold.
Fain  To be glad ; to wish or desire.
Faineant  Doing nothing; shiftless.
Faineant  A do-nothing; an idle fellow; a sluggard.
Faint  Lacking strength; weak; languid; inclined to swoon; as, faint with fatigue, hunger, or thirst.
Faint  Wanting in courage, spirit, or energy; timorous; cowardly; dejected; depressed; as, "Faint heart ne'er won fair lady."
Faint  Lacking distinctness; hardly perceptible; striking the senses feebly; not bright, or loud, or sharp, or forcible; weak; as, a faint color, or sound.
Faint  Performed, done, or acted, in a weak or feeble manner; not exhibiting vigor, strength, or energy; slight; as, faint efforts; faint resistance.
Faint  The act of fainting, or the state of one who has fainted; a swoon. [R.] See Fainting, n.
Fainted  of Faint
Fainting  of Faint
Faint  To become weak or wanting in vigor; to grow feeble; to lose strength and color, and the control of the bodily or mental functions; to swoon; -- sometimes with away. See Fainting, n.
Faint  To sink into dejection; to lose courage or spirit; to become depressed or despondent.
Faint  To decay; to disappear; to vanish.
Faint  To cause to faint or become dispirited; to depress; to weaken.
Fainthearted  Wanting in courage; depressed by fear; easily discouraged or frightened; cowardly; timorous; dejected.
Fainting  Syncope, or loss of consciousness owing to a sudden arrest of the blood supply to the brain, the face becoming pallid, the respiration feeble, and the heat's beat weak.
Faintish  Slightly faint; somewhat faint.
Faintling  Timorous; feeble-minded.
Faintly  In a faint, weak, or timidmanner.
Faintness  The state of being faint; loss of strength, or of consciousness, and self-control.
Faintness  Want of vigor or energy.
Faintness  Feebleness, as of color or light; lack of distinctness; as, faintness of description.
Faintness  Faint-heartedness; timorousness; dejection.
Faints  The impure spirit which comes over first and last in the distillation of whisky; -- the former being called the strong faints, and the latter, which is much more abundant, the weak faints. This crude spirit is much impregnated with fusel oil.
Fainty  Feeble; languid.
Fair  Free from spots, specks, dirt, or imperfection; unblemished; clean; pure.
Fair  Pleasing to the eye; handsome; beautiful.
Fair  Without a dark hue; light; clear; as, a fair skin.
Fair  Not overcast; cloudless; clear; pleasant; propitious; favorable; -- said of the sky, weather, or wind, etc.; as, a fair sky; a fair day.
Fair  Free from obstacles or hindrances; unobstructed; unincumbered; open; direct; -- said of a road, passage, etc.; as, a fair mark; in fair sight; a fair view.
Fair  Without sudden change of direction or curvature; smooth; fowing; -- said of the figure of a vessel, and of surfaces, water lines, and other lines.
Fair  Characterized by frankness, honesty, impartiality, or candor; open; upright; free from suspicion or bias; equitable; just; -- said of persons, character, or conduct; as, a fair man; fair dealing; a fair statement.
Fair  Pleasing; favorable; inspiring hope and confidence; -- said of words, promises, etc.
Fair  Distinct; legible; as, fair handwriting.
Fair  Free from any marked characteristic; average; middling; as, a fair specimen.
Fair  Clearly; openly; frankly; civilly; honestly; favorably; auspiciously; agreeably.
Fair  Fairness, beauty.
Fair  A fair woman; a sweetheart.
Fair  Good fortune; good luck.
Fair  To make fair or beautiful.
Fair  To make smooth and flowing, as a vessel's lines.
Fair  A gathering of buyers and sellers, assembled at a particular place with their merchandise at a stated or regular season, or by special appointment, for trade.
Fair  A festival, and sale of fancy articles. erc., usually for some charitable object; as, a Grand Army fair.
Fair  A competitive exhibition of wares, farm products, etc., not primarily for purposes of sale; as, the Mechanics' fair; an agricultural fair.
Fair-haired  Having fair or light-colored hair.
Fairhood  Fairness; beauty.
Fairily  In the manner of a fairy.
Fairing  A present; originally, one given or purchased at a fair.
Fairish  Tolerably fair.
Fair-leader  A block, or ring, serving as a guide for the running rigging or for any rope.
Fairly  In a fair manner; clearly; openly; plainly; fully; distinctly; frankly.
Fairly  Favorably; auspiciously; commodiously; as, a town fairly situated for foreign traade.
Fairly  Honestly; properly.
Fairly  Softly; quietly; gently.
Fair-minded  Unprejudiced; just; judicial; honest.
Fair-natured  Well-disposed.
Fairness  The state of being fair, or free form spots or stains, as of the skin; honesty, as of dealing; candor, as of an argument, etc.
Faair-spoken  Using fair speech, or uttered with fairness; bland; civil; courteous; plausible.
Fairway  The navigable part of a river, bay, etc., through which vessels enter or depart; the part of a harbor or channel ehich is kept open and unobstructed for the passage of vessels.
Fair-weather  Made or done in pleasant weather, or in circumstances involving but little exposure or sacrifice; as, a fair-weather voyage.
Fair-weather  Appearing only when times or circumstances are prosperous; as, a fair-weather friend.
Fair-world  State of prosperity.
Fairies  of Fairy
Fairy  Enchantment; illusion.
Fairy  The country of the fays; land of illusions.
Fairy  An imaginary supernatural being or spirit, supposed to assume a human form (usually diminutive), either male or female, and to meddle for good or evil in the affairs of mankind; a fay. See Elf, and Demon.
Fairy  An enchantress.
Fairy  Of or pertaining to fairies.
Fairy  Given by fairies; as, fairy money.
Fairyland  The imaginary land or abode of fairies.
Fairylike  Resembling a fairy, or what is made or done be fairies; as, fairylike music.
Faith  Belief; the assent of the mind to the truth of what is declared by another, resting solely and implicitly on his authority and veracity; reliance on testimony.
Faith  The assent of the mind to the statement or proposition of another, on the ground of the manifest truth of what he utters; firm and earnest belief, on probable evidence of any kind, especially in regard to important moral truth.
Faith  The belief in the historic truthfulness of the Scripture narrative, and the supernatural origin of its teachings, sometimes called historical and speculative faith.
Faith  The belief in the facts and truth of the Scriptures, with a practical love of them; especially, that confiding and affectionate belief in the person and work of Christ, which affects the character and life, and makes a man a true Christian, -- called a practical, evangelical, or saving faith.
Faith  That which is believed on any subject, whether in science, politics, or religion; especially (Theol.), a system of religious belief of any kind; as, the Jewish or Mohammedan faith; and especially, the system of truth taught by Christ; as, the Christian faith; also, the creed or belief of a Christian society or church.
Faith  Fidelity to one's promises, or allegiance to duty, or to a person honored and beloved; loyalty.
Faith  Word or honor pledged; promise given; fidelity; as, he violated his faith.
Faith  Credibility or truth.
Faith  By my faith; in truth; verily.
Faithed  Having faith or a faith; honest; sincere.
Faithful  Full of faith, or having faith; disposed to believe, especially in the declarations and promises of God.
Faithful  Firm in adherence to promises, oaths, contracts, treaties, or other engagements.
Faithful  True and constant in affection or allegiance to a person to whom one is bound by a vow, be ties of love, gratitude, or honor, as to a husband, a prince, a friend; firm in the observance of duty; loyal; of true fidelity; as, a faithful husband or servant.
Faithful  Worthy of confidence and belief; conformable to truth ot fact; exact; accurate; as, a faithful narrative or representation.
Faithless  Not believing; not giving credit.
Faithless  Not believing on God or religion; specifically, not believing in the Christian religion.
Faithless  Not observant of promises or covenants.
Faithless  Not true to allegiance, duty, or vows; perfidious; trecherous; disloyal; not of true fidelity; inconstant, as a husband or a wife.
Faithless  Serving to disappoint or deceive; delusive; unsatisfying.
Faitour  A doer or actor; particularly, an evil doer; a scoundrel.
Fake  One of the circles or windings of a cable or hawser, as it lies in a coil; a single turn or coil.
Fake  To coil (a rope, line, or hawser), by winding alternately in opposite directions, in layers usually of zigzag or figure of eight form,, to prevent twisting when running out.
Fake  To cheat; to swindle; to steal; to rob.
Fake  To make; to construct; to do.
Fake  To manipulate fraudulently, so as to make an object appear better or other than it really is; as, to fake a bulldog, by burning his upper lip and thus artificially shortening it.
Fake  A trick; a swindle.
Fakir  An Oriental religious ascetic or begging monk.
Falanaka  A viverrine mammal of Madagascar (Eupleres Goudotii), allied to the civet; -- called also Falanouc.
Falcade  The action of a horse, when he throws himself on his haunches two or three times, bending himself, as it were, in very quick curvets.
Falcate  Alt. of Falcated
Falcated  Hooked or bent like a sickle; as, a falcate leaf; a falcate claw; -- said also of the moon, or a planet, when horned or crescent-formed.
Falcation  The state of being falcate; a bend in the form of a sickle.
Falcer  One of the mandibles of a spider.
Falchion  A broad-bladed sword, slightly curved, shorter and lighter than the ordinary sword; -- used in the Middle Ages.
Falchion  A name given generally and poetically to a sword, especially to the swords of Oriental and fabled warriors.
Falcidian  Of or pertaining to Publius Falcidius, a Roman tribune.
Falciform  Having the shape of a scithe or sickle; resembling a reaping hook; as, the falciform ligatment of the liver.
Falcon  One of a family (Falconidae) of raptorial birds, characterized by a short, hooked beak, strong claws, and powerful flight.
Falcon  Any species of the genus Falco, distinguished by having a toothlike lobe on the upper mandible; especially, one of this genus trained to the pursuit of other birds, or game.
Falcon  An ancient form of cannon.
Falconer  A person who breeds or trains hawks for taking birds or game; one who follows the sport of fowling with hawks.
Falconet  One of the smaller cannon used in the 15th century and later.
Falconet  One of several very small Asiatic falcons of the genus Microhierax.
Falconet  One of a group of Australian birds of the genus Falcunculus, resembling shrikes and titmice.
Falcongentil  The female or young of the goshawk (Astur palumbarius).
Falconine  Like a falcon or hawk; belonging to the Falconidae
Falconry  The art of training falcons or hawks to pursue and attack wild fowl or game.
Falconry  The sport of taking wild fowl or game by means of falcons or hawks.
Falcula  A curved and sharp-pointed claw.
Falculate  Curved and sharppointed, like a falcula, or claw of a falcon.
Faldage  A privilege of setting up, and moving about, folds for sheep, in any fields within manors, in order to manure them; -- often reserved to himself by the lord of the manor.
Faldfee  A fee or rent paid by a tenant for the privilege of faldage on his own ground.
Falding  A frieze or rough-napped cloth.
Faldistory  The throne or seat of a bishop within the chancel.
Faldstool  A folding stool, or portable seat, made to fold up in the manner of a camo stool. It was formerly placed in the choir for a bishop, when he offciated in any but his own cathedral church.
Falernian  Of or pertaining to Mount Falernus, in Italy; as, Falernianwine.
Falk  The razorbill.
Fell  of Fall
Fallen  of Fall
Falling  of Fall
Fall  To Descend, either suddenly or gradually; particularly, to descend by the force of gravity; to drop; to sink; as, the apple falls; the tide falls; the mercury falls in the barometer.
Fall  To cease to be erect; to take suddenly a recumbent posture; to become prostrate; to drop; as, a child totters and falls; a tree falls; a worshiper falls on his knees.
Fall  To find a final outlet; to discharge its waters; to empty; -- with into; as, the river Rhone falls into the Mediterranean.
Fall  To become prostrate and dead; to die; especially, to die by violence, as in battle.
Fall  To cease to be active or strong; to die away; to lose strength; to subside; to become less intense; as, the wind falls.
Fall  To issue forth into life; to be brought forth; -- said of the young of certain animals.
Fall  To decline in power, glory, wealth, or importance; to become insignificant; to lose rank or position; to decline in weight, value, price etc.; to become less; as, the falls; stocks fell two points.
Fall  To be overthrown or captured; to be destroyed.
Fall  To descend in character or reputation; to become degraded; to sink into vice, error, or sin; to depart from the faith; to apostatize; to sin.
Fall  To become insnared or embarrassed; to be entrapped; to be worse off than before; asm to fall into error; to fall into difficulties.
Fall  To assume a look of shame or disappointment; to become or appear dejected; -- said of the countenance.
Fall  To sink; to languish; to become feeble or faint; as, our spirits rise and fall with our fortunes.
Fall  To pass somewhat suddenly, and passively, into a new state of body or mind; to become; as, to fall asleep; to fall into a passion; to fall in love; to fall into temptation.
Fall  To happen; to to come to pass; to light; to befall; to issue; to terminate.
Fall  To come; to occur; to arrive.
Fall  To begin with haste, ardor, or vehemence; to rush or hurry; as, they fell to blows.
Fall  To pass or be transferred by chance, lot, distribution, inheritance, or otherwise; as, the estate fell to his brother; the kingdom fell into the hands of his rivals.
Fall  To belong or appertain.
Fall  To be dropped or uttered carelessly; as, an unguarded expression fell from his lips; not a murmur fell from him.
Fall  To let fall; to drop.
Fall  To sink; to depress; as, to fall the voice.
Fall  To diminish; to lessen or lower.
Fall  To bring forth; as, to fall lambs.
Fall  To fell; to cut down; as, to fall a tree.
Fall  The act of falling; a dropping or descending be the force of gravity; descent; as, a fall from a horse, or from the yard of ship.
Fall  The act of dropping or tumbling from an erect posture; as, he was walking on ice, and had a fall.
Fall  Death; destruction; overthrow; ruin.
Fall  Downfall; degradation; loss of greatness or office; termination of greatness, power, or dominion; ruin; overthrow; as, the fall of the Roman empire.
Fall  The surrender of a besieged fortress or town ; as, the fall of Sebastopol.
Fall  Diminution or decrease in price or value; depreciation; as, the fall of prices; the fall of rents.
Fall  A sinking of tone; cadence; as, the fall of the voice at the close of a sentence.
Fall  Declivity; the descent of land or a hill; a slope.
Fall  Descent of water; a cascade; a cataract; a rush of water down a precipice or steep; -- usually in the plural, sometimes in the singular; as, the falls of Niagara.
Fall  The discharge of a river or current of water into the ocean, or into a lake or pond; as, the fall of the Po into the Gulf of Venice.
Fall  Extent of descent; the distance which anything falls; as, the water of a stream has a fall of five feet.
Fall  The season when leaves fall from trees; autumn.
Fall  That which falls; a falling; as, a fall of rain; a heavy fall of snow.
Fall  The act of felling or cutting down.
Fall  Lapse or declension from innocence or goodness. Specifically: The first apostasy; the act of our first parents in eating the forbidden fruit; also, the apostasy of the rebellious angels.
Fall  Formerly, a kind of ruff or band for the neck; a falling band; a faule.
Fall  That part (as one of the ropes) of a tackle to which the power is applied in hoisting.
Fallacious  Embodying or pertaining to a fallacy; illogical; fitted to deceive; misleading; delusive; as, fallacious arguments or reasoning.
Fallacies  of Fallacy
Fallacy  Deceptive or false appearance; deceitfulness; that which misleads the eye or the mind; deception.
Fallacy  An argument, or apparent argument, which professes to be decisive of the matter at issue, while in reality it is not; a sophism.
Fallals  Gay ornaments; frippery; gewgaws.
Fallax  Cavillation; a caviling.
Fallen  Dropped; prostrate; degraded; ruined; decreased; dead.
Fallency  An exception.
Faller  One who, or that which, falls.
Faller  A part which acts by falling, as a stamp in a fulling mill, or the device in a spinning machine to arrest motion when a thread breaks.
Fallfish  A fresh-water fish of the United States (Semotilus bullaris); -- called also silver chub, and Shiner. The name is also applied to other allied species.
Fallibility  The state of being fallible; liability to deceive or to be deceived; as, the fallibity of an argument or of an adviser.
Fallible  Liable to fail, mistake, or err; liable to deceive or to be deceived; as, all men are fallible; our opinions and hopes are fallible.
Fallibly  In a fallible manner.
Falling  from Fall, v. i.
Fallopian  Pertaining to, or discovered by, Fallopius; as, the Fallopian tubes or oviducts, the ducts or canals which conduct the ova from the ovaries to the uterus.
Fallow  Pale red or pale yellow; as, a fallow deer or greyhound.
Fallow  Left untilled or unsowed after plowing; uncultivated; as, fallow ground.
Fallow  Plowed land.
Fallow  Land that has lain a year or more untilled or unseeded; land plowed without being sowed for the season.
Fallow  The plowing or tilling of land, without sowing it for a season; as, summer fallow, properly conducted, has ever been found a sure method of destroying weeds.
Fallowed  of Fallow
Fallowing  of Fallow
Fallow  To plow, harrow, and break up, as land, without seeding, for the purpose of destroying weeds and insects, and rendering it mellow; as, it is profitable to fallow cold, strong, clayey land.
Fallow  A European species of deer (Cervus dama), much smaller than the red deer. In summer both sexes are spotted with white. It is common in England, where it is often domesticated in the parks.
Fallowist  One who favors the practice of fallowing land.
Fallowness  A well or opening, through the successive floors of a warehouse or manufactory, through which goods are raised or lowered.
Falsary  A falsifier of evidence.
False  Uttering falsehood; unveracious; given to deceit; dishnest; as, a false witness.
False  Not faithful or loyal, as to obligations, allegiance, vows, etc.; untrue; treacherous; perfidious; as, a false friend, lover, or subject; false to promises.
False  Not according with truth or reality; not true; fitted or likely to deceive or disappoint; as, a false statement.
False  Not genuine or real; assumed or designed to deceive; counterfeit; hypocritical; as, false tears; false modesty; false colors; false jewelry.
False  Not well founded; not firm or trustworthy; erroneous; as, a false claim; a false conclusion; a false construction in grammar.
False  Not essential or permanent, as parts of a structure which are temporary or supplemental.
False  Not in tune.
False  Not truly; not honestly; falsely.
False  To report falsely; to falsify.
False  To betray; to falsify.
False  To mislead by want of truth; to deceive.
False  To feign; to pretend to make.
False-faced  Hypocritical.
False-heart  False-hearted.
False-hearted  Hollow or unsound at the core; treacherous; deceitful; perfidious.
Falsehood  Want of truth or accuracy; an untrue assertion or representation; error; misrepresentation; falsity.
Falsehood  A deliberate intentional assertion of what is known to be untrue; a departure from moral integrity; a lie.
Falsehood  Treachery; deceit; perfidy; unfaithfulness.
Falsehood  A counterfeit; a false appearance; an imposture.
Falsely  In a false manner; erroneously; not truly; perfidiously or treacherously.
Falseness  The state of being false; contrariety to the fact; inaccuracy; want of integrity or uprightness; double dealing; unfaithfulness; treachery; perfidy; as, the falseness of a report, a drawing, or a singer's notes; the falseness of a man, or of his word.
Falser  A deceiver.
Falsettos  of Falsetto
Falsetto  A false or artificial voice; that voice in a man which lies above his natural voice; the male counter tenor or alto voice. See Head voice, under Voice.
Falsicrimen  The crime of falsifying.
Falsifiable  Capable of being falsified, counterfeited, or corrupted.
Falsification  The act of falsifying, or making false; a counterfeiting; the giving to a thing an appearance of something which it is not.
Falsification  Willful misstatement or misrepresentation.
Falsification  The showing an item of charge in an account to be wrong.
Falsificator  A falsifier.
Falsifier  One who falsifies, or gives to a thing a deceptive appearance; a liar.
Falsified  of Falsify
Falsifying  of Falsify
Falsify  To make false; to represent falsely.
Falsify  To counterfeit; to forge; as, to falsify coin.
Falsify  To prove to be false, or untrustworthy; to confute; to disprove; to nullify; to make to appear false.
Falsify  To violate; to break by falsehood; as, to falsify one's faith or word.
Falsify  To baffle or escape; as, to falsify a blow.
Falsify  To avoid or defeat; to prove false, as a judgment.
Falsify  To show, in accounting, (an inem of charge inserted in an account) to be wrong.
Falsify  To make false by multilation or addition; to tamper with; as, to falsify a record or document.
Falsify  To tell lies; to violate the truth.
Falsism  That which is evidently false; an assertion or statement the falsity of which is plainly apparent; -- opposed to truism.
Falsities  of Falsity
Falsity  The quality of being false; coutrariety or want of conformity to truth.
Falsity  That which is false; falsehood; a lie; a false assertion.
Falter  To thrash in the chaff; also, to cleanse or sift, as barley.
Faltered  of Falter
Faltering  of Falter
Falter  To hesitate; to speak brokenly or weakly; to stammer; as, his tongue falters.
Falter  To tremble; to totter; to be unsteady.
Falter  To hesitate in purpose or action.
Falter  To fail in distinctness or regularity of exercise; -- said of the mind or of thought.
Falter  To utter with hesitation, or in a broken, trembling, or weak manner.
Falter  Hesitation; trembling; feebleness; an uncertain or broken sound; as, a slight falter in her voice.
Faltering  Hesitating; trembling.
Faltering  Falter; halting; hesitation.
Faluns  A series of strata, of the Middle Tertiary period, of France, abounding in shells, and used by Lyell as the type of his Miocene subdivision.
Falwe  Fallow.
Falx  A curved fold or process of the dura mater or the peritoneum; esp., one of the partitionlike folds of the dura mater which extend into the great fissures of the brain.
Famble  To stammer.
Famble  A hand.
Fame  Public report or rumor.
Fame  Report or opinion generally diffused; renown; public estimation; celebrity, either favorable or unfavorable; as, the fame of Washington.
Famed  of Fame
Faming  of Fame
Fame  To report widely or honorably.
Fame  To make famous or renowned.
Fameless  Without fame or renown.
Familiar  Of or pertaining to a family; domestic.
Familiar  Closely acquainted or intimate, as a friend or companion; well versed in, as any subject of study; as, familiar with the Scriptures.
Familiar  Characterized by, or exhibiting, the manner of an intimate friend; not formal; unconstrained; easy; accessible.
Familiar  Well known; well understood; common; frequent; as, a familiar illustration.
Familiar  Improperly acquainted; wrongly intimate.
Familiar  An intimate; a companion.
Familiar  An attendant demon or evil spirit.
Familiar  A confidential officer employed in the service of the tribunal, especially in apprehending and imprisoning the accused.
Familiarities  of Familiarity
Familiarity  The state of being familiar; intimate and frequent converse, or association; unconstrained intercourse; freedom from ceremony and constraint; intimacy; as, to live in remarkable familiarity.
Familiarity  Anything said or done by one person to another unceremoniously and without constraint; esp., in the pl., such actions and words as propriety and courtesy do not warrant; liberties.
Familiarization  The act or process of making familiar; the result of becoming familiar; as, familiarization with scenes of blood.
Familiarized  of Familiarize
Familiarizing  of Familiarize
Familiarize  To make familiar or intimate; to habituate; to accustom; to make well known by practice or converse; as, to familiarize one's self with scenes of distress.
Familiarize  To make acquainted, or skilled, by practice or study; as, to familiarize one's self with a business, a book, or a science.
Familiarly  In a familiar manner.
Familiarness  Familiarity.
Familiary  Of or pertaining to a family or household; domestic.
Familism  The tenets of the Familists.
Familist  One of afanatical Antinomian sect originating in Holland, and existing in England about 1580, called the Family of Love, who held that religion consists wholly in love.
Familisteries  of Familistery
Familistery  A community in which many persons unite as in one family, and are regulated by certain communistic laws and customs.
Familistic  Alt. of Familistical
Familistical  Pertaining to Familists.
Families  of Family
Family  The collective body of persons who live in one house, and under one head or manager; a household, including parents, children, and servants, and, as the case may be, lodgers or boarders.
Family  The group comprising a husband and wife and their dependent children, constituting a fundamental unit in the organization of society.
Family  Those who descend from one common progenitor; a tribe, clan, or race; kindred; house; as, the human family; the family of Abraham; the father of a family.
Family  Course of descent; genealogy; line of ancestors; lineage.
Family  Honorable descent; noble or respectable stock; as, a man of family.
Family  A group of kindred or closely related individuals; as, a family of languages; a family of States; the chlorine family.
Family  A group of organisms, either animal or vegetable, related by certain points of resemblance in structure or development, more comprehensive than a genus, because it is usually based on fewer or less pronounced points of likeness. In zoology a family is less comprehesive than an order; in botany it is often considered the same thing as an order.
Famine  General scarcity of food; dearth; a want of provisions; destitution.
Famished  of Famish
Famishing  of Famish
Famish  To starve, kill, or destroy with hunger.
Famish  To exhaust the strength or endurance of, by hunger; to distress with hanger.
Famish  To kill, or to cause to suffer extremity, by deprivation or denial of anything necessary.
Famish  To force or constrain by famine.
Famish  To die of hunger; to starve.
Famish  To suffer extreme hunger or thirst, so as to be exhausted in strength, or to come near to perish.
Famish  To suffer extremity from deprivation of anything essential or necessary.
Famishment  State of being famished.
Famosity  The state or quality of being famous.
Famous  Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of; distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense, chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition, for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate.
Famoused  Renowned.
Famously  In a famous manner; in a distinguished degree; greatly; splendidly.
Famousness  The state of being famous.
Famular  Domestic; familiar.
Famulate  To serve.
Famulist  A collegian of inferior rank or position, corresponding to the sizar at Cambridge.
Fan  An instrument used for producing artificial currents of air, by the wafting or revolving motion of a broad surface
Fan  An instrument for cooling the person, made of feathers, paper, silk, etc., and often mounted on sticks all turning about the same pivot, so as when opened to radiate from the center and assume the figure of a section of a circle.
Fan  Any revolving vane or vanes used for producing currents of air, in winnowing grain, blowing a fire, ventilation, etc., or for checking rapid motion by the resistance of the air; a fan blower; a fan wheel.
Fan  An instrument for winnowing grain, by moving which the grain is tossed and agitated, and the chaff is separated and blown away.
Fan  Something in the form of a fan when spread, as a peacock's tail, a window, etc.
Fan  A small vane or sail, used to keep the large sails of a smock windmill always in the direction of the wind.
Fan  That which produces effects analogous to those of a fan, as in exciting a flame, etc.; that which inflames, heightens, or strengthens; as, it served as a fan to the flame of his passion.
Fan  A quintain; -- from its form.
Fanned  of Fan
Fanning  of Fan
Fan  To move as with a fan.
Fan  To cool and refresh, by moving the air with a fan; to blow the air on the face of with a fan.
Fan  To ventilate; to blow on; to affect by air put in motion.
Fan  To winnow; to separate chaff from, and drive it away by a current of air; as, to fan wheat.
Fan  To excite or stir up to activity, as a fan axcites a flame; to stimulate; as, this conduct fanned the excitement of the populace.
Fanal  A lighthouse, or the apparatus placed in it for giving light.
Fanatic  Pertaining to, or indicating, fanaticism; extravagant in opinions; ultra; unreasonable; excessively enthusiastic, especially on religious subjects; as, fanatic zeal; fanatic notions.
Fanatic  A person affected by excessive enthusiasm, particularly on religious subjects; one who indulges wild and extravagant notions of religion.
Fanatical  Characteristic of, or relating to, fanaticism; fanatic.
Fanaticism  Excessive enthusiasm, unreasoning zeal, or wild and extravagant notions, on any subject, especially religion; religious frenzy.
Fanaticized  of Fanaticize
Fanaticizing  of Fanaticize
Fanaticize  To cause to become a fanatic.
Fanatism  Fanaticism.
Fancied  Formed or conceived by the fancy; unreal; as, a fancied wrong.
Fancier  One who is governed by fancy.
Fancier  One who fancies or has a special liking for, or interest in, a particular object or class or objects; hence, one who breeds and keeps for sale birds and animals; as, bird fancier, dog fancier, etc.
Fanciful  Full of fancy; guided by fancy, rather than by reason and experience; whimsical; as, a fanciful man forms visionary projects.
Fanciful  Conceived in the fancy; not consistent with facts or reason; abounding in ideal qualities or figures; as, a fanciful scheme; a fanciful theory.
Fanciful  Curiously shaped or constructed; as, she wore a fanciful headdress.
Fanciless  Having no fancy; without ideas or imagination.
Fancies  of Fancy
Fancy  The faculty by which the mind forms an image or a representation of anything perceived before; the power of combining and modifying such objects into new pictures or images; the power of readily and happily creating and recalling such objects for the purpose of amusement, wit, or embellishment; imagination.
Fancy  An image or representation of anything formed in the mind; conception; thought; idea; conceit.
Fancy  An opinion or notion formed without much reflection; caprice; whim; impression.
Fancy  Inclination; liking, formed by caprice rather than reason; as, to strike one's fancy; hence, the object of inclination or liking.
Fancy  That which pleases or entertains the taste or caprice without much use or value.
Fancy  A sort of love song or light impromptu ballad.
Fancied  of Fancy
Fancying  of Fancy
Fancy  To figure to one's self; to believe or imagine something without proof.
Fancy  To love.
Fancy  To form a conception of; to portray in the mind; to imagine.
Fancy  To have a fancy for; to like; to be pleased with, particularly on account of external appearance or manners.
Fancy  To believe without sufficient evidence; to imagine (something which is unreal).
Fancy  Adapted to please the fancy or taste; ornamental; as, fancy goods.
Fancy  Extravagant; above real value.
Fancy-free  Free from the power of love.
Fancymonger  A lovemonger; a whimsical lover.
Fancy-sick  Love-sick.
Fancywork  Ornamental work with a needle or hook, as embroidery, crocheting, netting, etc.
Fand  imp. of Find.
Fandangoes  of Fandango
Fandango  A lively dance, in 3-8 or 6-8 time, much practiced in Spain and Spanish America. Also, the tune to which it is danced.
Fandango  A ball or general dance, as in Mexico.
Fane  A temple; a place consecrated to religion; a church.
Fane  A weathercock.
Fanega  A dry measure in Spain and Spanish America, varying from 1/ to 2/ bushels; also, a measure of land.
Fanfare  A flourish of trumpets, as in coming into the lists, etc.; also, a short and lively air performed on hunting horns during the chase.
Fanfaron  A bully; a hector; a swaggerer; an empty boaster.
Fanfaronade  A swaggering; vain boasting; ostentation; a bluster.
Fanfoot  A species of gecko having the toes expanded into large lobes for adhesion. The Egyptian fanfoot (Phyodactylus gecko) is believed, by the natives, to have venomous toes.
Fanfoot  Any moth of the genus Polypogon.
Fang  To catch; to seize, as with the teeth; to lay hold of; to gripe; to clutch.
Fang  To enable to catch or tear; to furnish with fangs.
Fang  The tusk of an animal, by which the prey is seized and held or torn; a long pointed tooth; esp., one of the usually erectile, venomous teeth of serpents. Also, one of the falcers of a spider.
Fang  Any shoot or other thing by which hold is taken.
Fang  The root, or one of the branches of the root, of a tooth. See Tooth.
Fang  A niche in the side of an adit or shaft, for an air course.
Fang  A projecting tooth or prong, as in a part of a lock, or the plate of a belt clamp, or the end of a tool, as a chisel, where it enters the handle.
Fang  The valve of a pump box.
Fang  A bend or loop of a rope.
Fanged  Having fangs or tusks; as, a fanged adder. Also used figuratively.
Fangle  Something new-fashioned; a foolish innovation; a gewgaw; a trifling ornament.
Fangle  To fashion.
Fangled  New made; hence, gaudy; showy; vainly decorated. [Obs., except with the prefix new.] See Newfangled.
Fangleness  Quality of being fangled.
Fangless  Destitute of fangs or tusks.
Fangot  A quantity of wares, as raw silk, etc., from one hundred weight.
Fanion  A small flag sometimes carried at the head of the baggage of a brigade.
Fanion  A small flag for marking the stations in surveying.
Fanlike  Resembling a fan;
Fanlike  folded up like a fan, as certain leaves; plicate.
Fannel  Same as Fanon.
Fanner  One who fans.
Fanner  A fan wheel; a fan blower. See under Fan.
Fan-nerved  Having the nerves or veins arranged in a radiating manner; -- said of certain leaves, and of the wings of some insects.
Fanon  A term applied to various articles, as: (a) A peculiar striped scarf worn by the pope at mass, and by eastern bishops. (b) A maniple.
Fan  Any palm tree having fan-shaped or radiate leaves; as the Chamaerops humilis of Southern Europe; the species of Sabal and Thrinax in the West Indies, Florida, etc.; and especially the great talipot tree (Corypha umbraculifera) of Ceylon and Malaya. The leaves of the latter are often eighteen feet long and fourteen wide, and are used for umbrellas, tents, and roofs. When cut up, they are used for books and manuscripts.
Fantail  A variety of the domestic pigeon, so called from the shape of the tail.
Fantail  Any bird of the Australian genus Rhipidura, in which the tail is spread in the form of a fan during flight. They belong to the family of flycatchers.
Fan-tailed  Having an expanded, or fan-shaped, tail; as, the fan-tailed pigeon.
Fantasia  A continuous composition, not divided into what are called movements, or governed by the ordinary rules of musical design, but in which the author's fancy roves unrestricted by set form.
Fantasied  Filled with fancies or imaginations.
Fantasm  Same as Phantasm.
Fantast  One whose manners or ideas are fantastic.
Fantastic  Existing only in imagination; fanciful; imaginary; not real; chimerical.
Fantastic  Having the nature of a phantom; unreal.
Fantastic  Indulging the vagaries of imagination; whimsical; full of absurd fancies; capricious; as, fantastic minds; a fantastic mistress.
Fantastic  Resembling fantasies in irregularity, caprice, or eccentricity; irregular; oddly shaped; grotesque.
Fantastic  A person given to fantastic dress, manners, etc.; an eccentric person; a fop.
Fantastical  Fanciful; unreal; whimsical; capricious; fantastic.
Fantasticality  Fantastically.
Fantastically  In a fantastic manner.
Fantastic-alness  The quality of being fantastic.
Fantasticism  The quality of being fantastical; fancifulness; whimsicality.
Fantasticly  Fantastically.
Fantasticness  Fantasticalness.
Fantasticco  A fantastic.
Fantasies  of Fantasy
Fantasy  Fancy; imagination; especially, a whimsical or fanciful conception; a vagary of the imagination; whim; caprice; humor.
Fantasy  Fantastic designs.
Fantasy  To have a fancy for; to be pleased with; to like; to fancy.
Fantoccini  Puppets caused to perform evolutions or dramatic scenes by means of machinery; also, the representations in which they are used.
Fantom  See Phantom.
Fap  Fuddled.
Faquir  See Fakir.
Far  A young pig, or a litter of pigs.
Far  Distant in any direction; not near; remote; mutually separated by a wide space or extent.
Far  Remote from purpose; contrary to design or wishes; as, far be it from me to justify cruelty.
Far  Remote in affection or obedience; at a distance, morally or spiritually; t enmity with; alienated.
Far  Widely different in nature or quality; opposite in character.
Far  The more distant of two; as, the far side (called also off side) of a horse, that is, the right side, or the one opposite to the rider when he mounts.
Far  To a great extent or distance of space; widely; as, we are separated far from each other.
Far  To a great distance in time from any point; remotely; as, he pushed his researches far into antiquity.
Far  In great part; as, the day is far spent.
Far  In a great proportion; by many degrees; very much; deeply; greatly.
Farabout  A going out of the way; a digression.
Farad  The standard unit of electrical capacity; the capacity of a condenser whose charge, having an electro-motive force of one volt, is equal to the amount of electricity which, with the same electromotive force, passes through one ohm in one second; the capacity, which, charged with one coulomb, gives an electro-motive force of one volt.
Faradic  Of or pertaining to Michael Faraday, the distinguished electrician; -- applied especially to induced currents of electricity, as produced by certain forms of inductive apparatus, on account of Faraday's investigations of their laws.
Faradism  Alt. of Faradization
Faradization  The treatment with faradic or induced currents of electricity for remedial purposes.
Farand  See Farrand, n.
Farandams  A fabrik made of silk and wool or hair.
Farantly  Orderly; comely; respectable.
Farced  of Farce
Farcing  of Farce
Farce  To stuff with forcemeat; hence, to fill with mingled ingredients; to fill full; to stuff.
Farce  To render fat.
Farce  To swell out; to render pompous.
Farce  Stuffing, or mixture of viands, like that used on dressing a fowl; forcemeat.
Farce  A low style of comedy; a dramatic composition marked by low humor, generally written with little regard to regularity or method, and abounding with ludicrous incidents and expressions.
Farce  Ridiculous or empty show; as, a mere farce.
Farcement  Stuffing; forcemeat.
Farcical  Pertaining to farce; appropriated to farce; ludicrous; unnatural; unreal.
Farcical  Of or pertaining to the disease called farcy. See Farcy, n.
Farcilite  Pudding stone.
Farcimen  Alt. of Farcin
Farcin  Same as Farcy.
Farcing  Stuffing; forcemeat.
Farctate  Stuffed; filled solid; as, a farctate leaf, stem, or pericarp; -- opposed to tubular or hollow.
Farcy  A contagious disease of horses, associated with painful ulcerating enlargements, esp. upon the head and limbs. It is of the same nature as glanders, and is often fatal. Called also farcin, and farcimen.
Fard  Paint used on the face.
Fard  To paint; -- said esp. of one's face.
Fardage  See Dunnage.
Fardel  A bundle or little pack; hence, a burden.
Fardel  To make up in fardels.
Farding-bag  The upper stomach of a cow, or other ruminant animal; the rumen.
Fardingdale  A farthingale.
Fardingdeal  The fourth part of an acre of land.
Fared  of Fare
Faring  of Fare
Fare  To go; to pass; to journey; to travel.
Fare  To be in any state, or pass through any experience, good or bad; to be attended with any circummstances or train of events, fortunate or unfortunate; as, he fared well, or ill.
Fare  To be treated or entertained at table, or with bodily or social comforts; to live.
Fare  To happen well, or ill; -- used impersonally; as, we shall see how it will fare with him.
Fare  To behave; to conduct one's self.
Fare  A journey; a passage.
Fare  The price of passage or going; the sum paid or due for conveying a person by land or water; as, the fare for crossing a river; the fare in a coach or by railway.
Fare  Ado; bustle; business.
Fare  Condition or state of things; fortune; hap; cheer.
Fare  Food; provisions for the table; entertainment; as, coarse fare; delicious fare.
Fare  The person or persons conveyed in a vehicle; as, a full fare of passengers.
Fare  The catch of fish on a fishing vessel.
Faren  p. p. of Fare, v. i.
Farewell  Go well; good-by; adieu; -- originally applied to a person departing, but by custom now applied both to those who depart and those who remain. It is often separated by the pronoun; as, fare you well; and is sometimes used as an expression of separation only; as, farewell the year; farewell, ye sweet groves; that is, I bid you farewell.
Farewell  A wish of happiness or welfare at parting; the parting compliment; a good-by; adieu.
Farewell  Act of departure; leave-taking; a last look at, or reference to something.
Farewell  Parting; valedictory; final; as, a farewell discourse; his farewell bow.
Farfet  Farfetched.
Farfetch  To bring from far; to seek out studiously.
Farfetch  Anything brought from far, or brought about with studious care; a deep strategem.
Farfetched  Brought from far, or from a remote place.
Farfetched  Studiously sought; not easily or naturally deduced or introduced; forced; strained.
Farina  A fine flour or meal made from cereal grains or from the starch or fecula of vegetables, extracted by various processes, and used in cookery.
Farina  Pollen.
Farinaceous  Consisting or made of meal or flour; as, a farinaceous diet.
Farinaceous  Yielding farina or flour; as, ffarinaceous seeds.
Farinaceous  Like meal; mealy; pertainiing to meal; as, a farinaceous taste, smell, or appearance.
Farinose  Yielding farinaa; as, farinose substances.
Farinose  Civered with a sort of white, mealy powder, as the leaves of some poplars, and the body of certain insects; mealy.
Farl  Same as Furl.
Farlie  An unusual or unexpected thing; a wonder. See Fearly.
Farm  The rent of land, -- originally paid by reservation of part of its products.
Farm  The term or tenure of a lease of land for cultivation; a leasehold.
Farm  The land held under lease and by payment of rent for the purpose of cultivation.
Farm  Any tract of land devoted to agricultural purposes, under the management of a tenant or the owner.
Farm  A district of country leased (or farmed) out for the collection of the revenues of government.
Farm  A lease of the imposts on particular goods; as, the sugar farm, the silk farm.
Farmed  of Farm
Farming  of Farm
Farm  To lease or let for an equivalent, as land for a rent; to yield the use of to proceeds.
Farm  To give up to another, as an estate, a business, the revenue, etc., on condition of receiving in return a percentage of what it yields; as, to farm the taxes.
Farm  To take at a certain rent or rate.
Farm  To devote (land) to agriculture; to cultivate, as land; to till, as a farm.
Farm  To engage in the business of tilling the soil; to labor as a farmer.
Farmable  Capable of being farmed.
Farmer  One who farms
Farmer  One who hires and cultivates a farm; a cultivator of leased ground; a tenant.
Farmer  One who is devoted to the tillage of the soil; one who cultivates a farm; an agriculturist; a husbandman.
Farmer  One who takes taxes, customs, excise, or other duties, to collect, either paying a fixed annuual rent for the privilege; as, a farmer of the revenues.
Farmer  The lord of the field, or one who farms the lot and cope of the crown.
Farmeress  A woman who farms.
Farmership  Skill in farming.
Farmery  The buildings and yards necessary for the business of a farm; a homestead.
Farmhouse  A dwelling house on a farm; a farmer's residence.
Farming  Pertaining to agriculture; devoted to, adapted to, or engaged in, farming; as, farming tools; farming land; a farming community.
Farming  The business of cultivating land.
Farmost  Most distant; farthest.
Farmstead  A farm with the building upon it; a homestead on a farm.
Farmsteading  A farmstead.
Farmyard  The yard or inclosure attached to a barn, or the space inclosed by the farm buildings.
Farness  The state of being far off; distance; remoteness.
Faro  A gambling game at cardds, in whiich all the other players play against the dealer or banker, staking their money upon the order in which the cards will lie and be dealt from the pack.
Faroese  An inhabitant, or, collectively, inhabitants, of the Faroe islands.
Far-off  Remote; as, the far-off distance. Cf. Far-off, under Far, adv.
Farraginous  Formed of various materials; mixed; as, a farraginous mountain.
Farrago  A mass composed of various materials confusedly mixed; a medley; a mixture.
Farrand  Manner; custom; fashion; humor.
Farreation  Same as Confarreation.
Farrier  A shoer of horses; a veterinary surgeon.
Farrier  To practice as a farrier; to carry on the trade of a farrier.
Farriery  The art of shoeing horses.
Farriery  The art of preventing, curing, or mitigating diseases of horses and cattle; the veterinary art.
Farriery  The place where a smith shoes horses.
Farrow  A little of pigs.
Farrowed  of Farfow
Farrowing  of Farfow
Farfow  To bring forth (young); -- said only of swine.
Farrow  Not producing young in a given season or year; -- said only of cows.
Farry  A farrow.
Farse  An addition to, or a paraphrase of, some part of the Latin service in the vernacular; -- common in English before the Reformation.
Farseeing  Able to see to a great distance; farsighted.
Farseeing  Having foresight as regards the future.
Farsighted  Seeing to great distance; hence, of good judgment regarding the remote effects of actions; sagacious.
Farsighted  Hypermetropic.
Farsightedness  Quality of bbeing farsighted.
Farsightedness  Hypermetropia.
Farstretched  Streatched beyond ordinary limits.
Farther  More remote; more distant than something else.
Farther  Tending to a greater distance; beyond a certain point; additional; further.
Farther  At or to a greater distance; more remotely; beyond; as, let us rest with what we have, without looking farther.
Farther  Moreover; by way of progress in treating a subject; as, farther, let us consider the probable event.
Farther  To help onward. [R.] See Further.
Fartherance  See Furtherance.
Farthermore  See Furthermore.
Farthermost  Most remote; farthest.
Farthest  Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree. See Furthest.
Farthest  At or to the greatest distance. See Furthest.
Farthing  The fourth of a penny; a small copper coin of Great Britain, being a cent in United States currency.
Farthing  A very small quantity or value.
Farthing  A division of land.
Farthingale  A hoop skirt or hoop petticoat, or other light, elastic material, used to extend the petticoat.
Fasces  A bundle of rods, having among them an ax with the blade projecting, borne before the Roman magistrates as a badge of their authority.
Fascet  A wire basket on the end of a rod to carry glass bottles, etc., to the annealing furnace; also, an iron rod to be thrust into the mouths of bottles, and used for the same purpose; -- called also pontee and punty.
Fasciae  of Fascia
Fascia  A band, sash, or fillet; especially, in surgery, a bandage or roller.
Fascia  A flat member of an order or building, like a flat band or broad fillet; especially, one of the three bands which make up the architrave, in the Ionic order. See Illust. of Column.
Fascia  The layer of loose tissue, often containing fat, immediately beneath the skin; the stronger layer of connective tissue covering and investing all muscles; an aponeurosis.
Fascia  A broad well-defined band of color.
Fascial  Pertaining to the fasces.
Fascial  Relating to a fascia.
Fasciate  Alt. of Fasciated
Fasciated  Bound with a fillet, sash, or bandage.
Fasciated  Banded or compacted together.
Fasciated  Flattened and laterally widened, as are often the stems of the garden cockscomb.
Fasciated  Broadly banded with color.
Fasciation  The act or manner of binding up; bandage; also, the condition of being fasciated.
Fascicle  A small bundle or collection; a compact cluster; as, a fascicle of fibers; a fascicle of flowers or roots.
Fascicled  Growing in a bundle, tuft, or close cluster; as, the fascicled leaves of the pine or larch; the fascicled roots of the dahlia; fascicled muscle fibers; fascicled tufts of hair.
Fascicular  Pertaining to a fascicle; fascicled; as, a fascicular root.
Fascicularly  In a fascicled manner.
Fasciculate  Alt. of Fasciculated
Fasciculated  Grouped in a fascicle; fascicled.
Fasciculi  of Fasciculus
Fasciculus  A little bundle; a fascicle.
Fasciculus  A division of a book.
Fascinated  of Fascinate
Fascinating  of Fascinate
Fascinate  To influence in an uncontrollable manner; to operate on by some powerful or irresistible charm; to bewitch; to enchant.
Fascinate  To excite and allure irresistibly or powerfully; to charm; to captivate, as by physical or mental charms.
Fascination  The act of fascinating, bewhiching, or enchanting; enchantment; witchcraft; the exercise of a powerful or irresistible influence on the affections or passions; unseen, inexplicable influence.
Fascination  The state or condition of being fascinated.
Fascination  That which fascinates; a charm; a spell.
Fascine  A cylindrical bundle of small sticks of wood, bound together, used in raising batteries, filling ditches, strengthening ramparts, and making parapets; also in revetments for river banks, and in mats for dams, jetties, etc.
Fascinous  Caused or acting by witchcraft.
Fasciolae  of Fasciola
Fasciola  A band of gray matter bordering the fimbria in the brain; the dentate convolution.
Fasciole  A band of minute tubercles, bearing modified spines, on the shells of spatangoid sea urchins. See Spatangoidea.
Fashed  of Fash
Fashing  of Fash
Fash  To vex; to tease; to trouble.
Fash  Vexation; anxiety; care.
Fashion  The make or form of anything; the style, shape, appearance, or mode of structure; pattern, model; as, the fashion of the ark, of a coat, of a house, of an altar, etc.; workmanship; execution.
Fashion  The prevailing mode or style, especially of dress; custom or conventional usage in respect of dress, behavior, etiquette, etc.; particularly, the mode or style usual among persons of good breeding; as, to dress, dance, sing, ride, etc., in the fashion.
Fashion  Polite, fashionable, or genteel life; social position; good breeding; as, men of fashion.
Fashion  Mode of action; method of conduct; manner; custom; sort; way.
Fashioned  of Fashion
Fashioning  of Fashion
Fashion  To form; to give shape or figure to; to mold.
Fashion  To fit; to adapt; to accommodate; -- with to.
Fashion  To make according to the rule prescribed by custom.
Fashion  To forge or counterfeit.
Fashionable  Conforming to the fashion or established mode; according with the prevailing form or style; as, a fashionable dress.
Fashionable  Established or favored by custom or use; current; prevailing at a particular time; as, the fashionable philosophy; fashionable opinions.
Fashionable  Observant of the fashion or customary mode; dressing or behaving according to the prevailing fashion; as, a fashionable man.
Fashionable  Genteel; well-bred; as, fashionable society.
Fashionable  A person who conforms to the fashions; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Fashionableness  State of being fashionable.
Fashionably  In a fashionable manner.
Fashioned  Having a certain style or fashion; as old-fashioned; new-fashioned.
Fashioner  One who fashions, forms, ar gives shape to anything.
Fashionist  An obsequious follower of the modes and fashions.
Fashionless  Having no fashion.
Fashion-monger  One who studies the fashions; a fop; a dandy.
Fashion-mongering  Behaving like a fashion-monger.
Fassaite  A variety of pyroxene, from the valley of Fassa, in the Tyrol.
Fasted  of Fast
Fasting  of Fast
Fast  To abstain from food; to omit to take nourishment in whole or in part; to go hungry.
Fast  To practice abstinence as a religious exercise or duty; to abstain from food voluntarily for a time, for the mortification of the body or appetites, or as a token of grief, or humiliation and penitence.
Fast  Abstinence from food; omission to take nourishment.
Fast  Voluntary abstinence from food, for a space of time, as a spiritual discipline, or as a token of religious humiliation.
Fast  A time of fasting, whether a day, week, or longer time; a period of abstinence from food or certain kinds of food; as, an annual fast.
Fast  Firmly fixed; closely adhering; made firm; not loose, unstable, or easily moved; immovable; as, to make fast the door.
Fast  Firm against attack; fortified by nature or art; impregnable; strong.
Fast  Firm in adherence; steadfast; not easily separated or alienated; faithful; as, a fast friend.
Fast  Permanent; not liable to fade by exposure to air or by washing; durable; lasting; as, fast colors.
Fast  Tenacious; retentive.
Fast  Not easily disturbed or broken; deep; sound.
Fast  Moving rapidly; quick in mition; rapid; swift; as, a fast horse.
Fast  Given to pleasure seeking; disregardful of restraint; reckless; wild; dissipated; dissolute; as, a fast man; a fast liver.
Fast  In a fast, fixed, or firmly established manner; fixedly; firmly; immovably.
Fast  In a fast or rapid manner; quickly; swiftly; extravagantly; wildly; as, to run fast; to live fast.
Fast  That which fastens or holds; especially, (Naut.) a mooring rope, hawser, or chain; -- called, according to its position, a bow, head, quarter, breast, or stern fast; also, a post on a pier around which hawsers are passed in mooring.
Fastened  of Fasten
Fastening  of Fasten
Fasten  To fix firmly; to make fast; to secure, as by a knot, lock, bolt, etc.; as, to fasten a chain to the feet; to fasten a door or window.
Fasten  To cause to hold together or to something else; to attach or unite firmly; to cause to cleave to something , or to cleave together, by any means; as, to fasten boards together with nails or cords; to fasten anything in our thoughts.
Fasten  To cause to take close effect; to make to tell; to lay on; as, to fasten a blow.
Fasten  To fix one's self; to take firm hold; to clinch; to cling.
Fastener  One who, or that which, makes fast or firm.
Fastening  Anything that binds and makes fast, as a lock, catch, bolt, bar, buckle, etc.
Faster  One who abstains from food.
Fast-handed  Close-handed; close-fisted; covetous; avaricious.
Fasti  The Roman calendar, which gave the days for festivals, courts, etc., corresponding to a modern almanac.
Fasti  Records or registers of important events.
Fastidiosity  Fastidiousness; squeamishness.
Fastidious  Difficult to please; delicate to a fault; suited with difficulty; squeamish; as, a fastidious mind or ear; a fastidious appetite.
Fastigiate  Alt. of Fastigiated
Fastigiated  Narrowing towards the top.
Fastigiated  Clustered, parallel, and upright, as the branches of the Lombardy poplar; pointed.
Fastigiated  United into a conical bundle, or into a bundle with an enlarged head, like a sheaf of wheat.
Fastish  Rather fast; also, somewhat dissipated.
Fastly  Firmly; surely.
Fastness  The state of being fast and firm; firmness; fixedness; security; faithfulness.
Fastness  A fast place; a stronghold; a fortress or fort; a secure retreat; a castle; as, the enemy retired to their fastnesses in the mountains.
Fastness  Conciseness of style.
Fastness  The state of being fast or swift.
Fastuous  Proud; haughty; disdainful.
Fat  A large tub, cistern, or vessel; a vat.
Fat  A measure of quantity, differing for different commodities.
Fat  Abounding with fat
Fat  Fleshy; characterized by fatness; plump; corpulent; not lean; as, a fat man; a fat ox.
Fat  Oily; greasy; unctuous; rich; -- said of food.
Fat  Exhibiting the qualities of a fat animal; coarse; heavy; gross; dull; stupid.
Fat  Fertile; productive; as, a fat soil; a fat pasture.
Fat  Rich; producing a large income; desirable; as, a fat benefice; a fat office; a fat job.
Fat  Abounding in riches; affluent; fortunate.
Fat  Of a character which enables the compositor to make large wages; -- said of matter containing blank, cuts, or many leads, etc.; as, a fat take; a fat page.
Fat  An oily liquid or greasy substance making up the main bulk of the adipose tissue of animals, and widely distributed in the seeds of plants. See Adipose tissue, under Adipose.
Fat  The best or richest productions; the best part; as, to live on the fat of the land.
Fat  Work. containing much blank, or its equivalent, and, therefore, profitable to the compositor.
Fatted  of Fat
Fat  To make fat; to fatten; to make plump and fleshy with abundant food; as, to fat fowls or sheep.
Fat  To grow fat, plump, and fleshy.
Fatal  Proceeding from, or appointed by, fate or destiny; necessary; inevitable.
Fatal  Foreboding death or great disaster.
Fatal  Causing death or destruction; deadly; mortal; destructive; calamitous; as, a fatal wound; a fatal disease; a fatal day; a fatal error.
Fatalism  The doctrine that all things are subject to fate, or that they take place by inevitable necessity.
Fatalist  One who maintains that all things happen by inevitable necessity.
Fatalistic  Implying, or partaking of the nature of, fatalism.
Fatalities  of Fatality
Fatality  The state of being fatal, or proceeding from destiny; invincible necessity, superior to, and independent of, free and rational control.
Fatality  The state of being fatal; tendency to destruction or danger, as if by decree of fate; mortaility.
Fatality  That which is decreed by fate or which is fatal; a fatal event.
Fatally  In a manner proceeding from, or determined by, fate.
Fatally  In a manner issuing in death or ruin; mortally; destructively; as, fatally deceived or wounded.
Fatalness  Quality of being fatal.
Fata  A kind of mirage by which distant objects appear inverted, distorted, displaced, or multiplied. It is noticed particularly at the Straits of Messina, between Calabria and Sicily.
Fatback  The menhaden.
Fat-brained  Dull of apprehension.
Fate  A fixed decree by which the order of things is prescribed; the immutable law of the universe; inevitable necessity; the force by which all existence is determined and conditioned.
Fate  Appointed lot; allotted life; arranged or predetermined event; destiny; especially, the final lot; doom; ruin; death.
Fate  The element of chance in the affairs of life; the unforeseen and unestimated conitions considered as a force shaping events; fortune; esp., opposing circumstances against which it is useless to struggle; as, fate was, or the fates were, against him.
Gum  The concrete juice (gum resin) of an umbelliferous plant, the Dorema ammoniacum. It is brought chiefly from Persia in the form of yellowish tears, which occur singly, or are aggregated into masses. It has a peculiar smell, and a nauseous, sweet taste, followed by a bitter one. It is inflammable, partially soluble in water and in spirit of wine, and is used in medicine as an expectorant and resolvent, and for the formation of certain plasters.
Gab  The hook on the end of an eccentric rod opposite the strap. See. Illust. of Eccentric.
Gab  The mouth; hence, idle prate; chatter; unmeaning talk; loquaciousness.
Gab  To deceive; to lie.
Gab  To talk idly; to prate; to chatter.
Gabarage  A kind of coarse cloth for packing goods.
Gabardine  Alt. of Gaberdine
Gaberdine  A coarse frock or loose upper garment formerly worn by Jews; a mean dress.
Gabber  A liar; a deceiver.
Gabber  One addicted to idle talk.
Gabbled  of Gabble
Gabbling  of Gabble
Gabble  To talk fast, or to talk without meaning; to prate; to jabber.
Gabble  To utter inarticulate sounds with rapidity; as, gabbling fowls.
Gabble  Loud or rapid talk without meaning.
Gabble  Inarticulate sounds rapidly uttered; as of fowls.
Gabbier  One who gabbles; a prater.
Gabbro  A name originally given by the Italians to a kind of serpentine, later to the rock called euphotide, and now generally used for a coarsely crystalline, igneous rock consisting of lamellar pyroxene (diallage) and labradorite, with sometimes chrysolite (olivine gabbro).
Gabel  A rent, service, tribute, custom, tax, impost, or duty; an excise.
Gabeler  A collector of gabels or taxes.
Gabelle  A tax, especially on salt.
Gabelleman  A gabeler.
Gaberdine  See Gabardine.
Gaber-lunzie  A beggar with a wallet; a licensed beggar.
Gabert  A lighter, or vessel for inland navigation.
Gabion  A hollow cylinder of wickerwork, like a basket without a bottom. Gabions are made of various sizes, and filled with earth in building fieldworks to shelter men from an enemy's fire.
Gabion  An openwork frame, as of poles, filled with stones and sunk, to assist in forming a bar dyke, etc., as in harbor improvement.
Gabionade  A traverse made with gabions between guns or on their flanks, protecting them from enfilading fire.
Gabionade  A structure of gabions sunk in lines, as a core for a sand bar in harbor improvements.
Gabionage  The part of a fortification built of gabions.
Gabioned  Furnished with gabions.
Gabionnade  See Gabionade.
Gable  A cable.
Gable  The vertical triangular portion of the end of a building, from the level of the cornice or eaves to the ridge of the roof. Also, a similar end when not triangular in shape, as of a gambrel roof and the like.
Gable  The end wall of a building, as distinguished from the front or rear side.
Gable  A decorative member having the shape of a triangular gable, such as that above a Gothic arch in a doorway.
Gablet  A small gable, or gable-shaped canopy, formed over a tabernacle, niche, etc.
Gablock  A false spur or gaff, fitted on the heel of a gamecock.
Gaby  A simpleton; a dunce; a lout.
Gad  The point of a spear, or an arrowhead.
Gad  A pointed or wedge-shaped instrument of metal, as a steel wedge used in mining, etc.
Gad  A sharp-pointed rod; a goad.
Gad  A spike on a gauntlet; a gadling.
Gad  A wedge-shaped billet of iron or steel.
Gad  A rod or stick, as a fishing rod, a measuring rod, or a rod used to drive cattle with.
Gadded  of Gad
Gadding  of Gad
Gad  To walk about; to rove or go about, without purpose; hence, to run wild; to be uncontrolled.
Gadabout  A gadder
Gadbee  The gadfly.
Gadder  One who roves about idly, a rambling gossip.
Gadding  Going about much, needlessly or without purpose.
Gaddingly  In a roving, idle manner.
Gaddish  Disposed to gad.
Gade  A small British fish (Motella argenteola) of the Cod family.
Gade  A pike, so called at Moray Firth; -- called also gead.
Gadere  Alt. of Gadre
Gadre  To gather.
Gadflies  of Gadfly
Gadfly  Any dipterous insect of the genus Oestrus, and allied genera of botflies.
Gadhelic  Of or pertaining to that division of the Celtic languages, which includes the Irish, Gaelic, and Manx.
Gadic  Pertaining to, or derived from, the cod (Gadus); -- applied to an acid obtained from cod-liver oil, viz., gadic acid.
Gaditanian  Of or relating to Cadiz, in Spain.
Gaditanian  A native or inhabitant of Cadiz.
Gadling  See Gad, n., 4.
Gadling  Gadding about.
Gadling  A roving vagabond.
Gadman  A gadsman.
Gadoid  Of or pertaining to the family of fishes (Gadidae) which includes the cod, haddock, and hake.
Gadoid  One of the Gadidae.
Gadolinia  A rare earth, regarded by some as an oxide of the supposed element gadolinium, by others as only a mixture of the oxides of yttrium, erbium, ytterbium, etc.
Gadolinic  Pertaining to or containing gadolinium.
Gadolinite  A mineral of a nearly black color and vitreous luster, and consisting principally of the silicates of yttrium, cerium, and iron.
Gadolinium  A supposed rare metallic element, with a characteristic spectrum, found associated with yttrium and other rare metals. Its individuality and properties have not yet been determined.
Gadsman  One who uses a gad or goad in driving.
Gaduin  A yellow or brown amorphous substance, of indifferent nature, found in cod-liver oil.
Gadwall  A large duck (Anas strepera), valued as a game bird, found in the northern parts of Europe and America; -- called also gray duck.
Gael  A Celt or the Celts of the Scotch Highlands or of Ireland; now esp., a Scotch Highlander of Celtic origin.
Gaelic  Of or pertaining to the Gael, esp. to the Celtic Highlanders of Scotland; as, the Gaelic language.
Gaelic  The language of the Gaels, esp. of the Highlanders of Scotland. It is a branch of the Celtic.
Gaff  A barbed spear or a hook with a handle, used by fishermen in securing heavy fish.
Gaff  The spar upon which the upper edge of a fore-and-aft sail is extended.
Gaff  Same as Gaffle, 1.
Gaffed  of Gaff
Gaffing  of Gaff
Gaff  To strike with a gaff or barbed spear; to secure by means of a gaff; as, to gaff a salmon.
Gaffer  An old fellow; an aged rustic.
Gaffer  A foreman or overseer of a gang of laborers.
Gaffle  An artificial spur or gaff for gamecocks.
Gaffle  A lever to bend crossbows.
Gaff-topsail  A small triangular sail having its foot extended upon the gaff and its luff upon the topmast.
Gagged  of Gag
Gagging  of Gag
Gag  To stop the mouth of, by thrusting sometimes in, so as to hinder speaking; hence, to silence by authority or by violence; not to allow freedom of speech to.
Gag  To pry or hold open by means of a gag.
Gag  To cause to heave with nausea.
Gag  To heave with nausea; to retch.
Gag  To introduce gags or interpolations. See Gag, n., 3.
Gag  Something thrust into the mouth or throat to hinder speaking.
Gag  A mouthful that makes one retch; a choking bit; as, a gag of mutton fat.
Gag  A speech or phrase interpolated offhand by an actor on the stage in his part as written, usually consisting of some seasonable or local allusion.
Gagate  Agate.
Gage  A pledge or pawn; something laid down or given as a security for the performance of some act by the person depositing it, and forfeited by nonperformance; security.
Gage  A glove, cap, or the like, cast on the ground as a challenge to combat, and to be taken up by the accepter of the challenge; a challenge; a defiance.
Gage  A variety of plum; as, the greengage; also, the blue gage, frost gage, golden gage, etc., having more or less likeness to the greengage. See Greengage.
Gaged  of Gage
Gaging  of Gage
Gage  To give or deposit as a pledge or security for some act; to wage or wager; to pawn or pledge.
Gage  To bind by pledge, or security; to engage.
Gage  A measure or standard. See Gauge, n.
Gage  To measure. See Gauge, v. t.
Gager  A measurer. See Gauger.
Gagger  One who gags.
Gagger  A piece of iron imbedded in the sand of a mold to keep the sand in place.
Gaggled  of Gaggle
Gaggling  of Gaggle
Gaggle  To make a noise like a goose; to cackle.
Gaggle  A flock of wild geese.
Gagtooth  A projecting tooth.
Gag-toothed  Having gagteeth.
Gahnite  Zinc spinel; automolite.
Gaidic  Pertaining to hypogeic acid; -- applied to an acid obtained from hypogeic acid.
Gaiety  Same as Gayety.
Gailer  A jailer.
Gaillard  Gay; brisk; merry; galliard.
Gailliarde  A lively French and Italian dance.
Gaily  Merrily; showily. See gaily.
Gain  A square or beveled notch cut out of a girder, binding joist, or other timber which supports a floor beam, so as to receive the end of the floor beam.
Gain  Convenient; suitable; direct; near; handy; dexterous; easy; profitable; cheap; respectable.
Gain  That which is gained, obtained, or acquired, as increase, profit, advantage, or benefit; -- opposed to loss.
Gain  The obtaining or amassing of profit or valuable possessions; acquisition; accumulation.
Gained  of Gain
Gaining  of Gain
Gain  To get, as profit or advantage; to obtain or acquire by effort or labor; as, to gain a good living.
Gain  To come off winner or victor in; to be successful in; to obtain by competition; as, to gain a battle; to gain a case at law; to gain a prize.
Gain  To draw into any interest or party; to win to one's side; to conciliate.
Gain  To reach; to attain to; to arrive at; as, to gain the top of a mountain; to gain a good harbor.
Gain  To get, incur, or receive, as loss, harm, or damage.
Gain  To have or receive advantage or profit; to acquire gain; to grow rich; to advance in interest, health, or happiness; to make progress; as, the sick man gains daily.
Gainable  Capable of being obtained or reached.
Gainage  The horses, oxen, plows, wains or wagons and implements for carrying on tillage.
Gainage  The profit made by tillage; also, the land itself.
Gainer  One who gains.
Gainful  Profitable; advantageous; lucrative.
Gaingiving  A misgiving.
Gainless  Not producing gain; unprofitable.
Gainly  Handily; readily; dexterously; advantageously.
Gainpain  Bread-gainer; -- a term applied in the Middle Ages to the sword of a hired soldier.
Gainsaid  of Gainsay
Gainsaying  of Gainsay
Gainsay  To contradict; to deny; to controvert; to dispute; to forbid.
Gainsayer  One who gainsays, contradicts, or denies.
Gainsome  Gainful.
Gainsome  Prepossessing; well-favored.
Gainstood  of Gainstand
gainstanding  of Gainstand
Gainstand  To withstand; to resist.
Gainstrive  To strive or struggle against; to withstand.
Gairfowl  See Garefowl.
Gairish  Alt. of Gairish/ness
Gairishly  Alt. of Gairish/ness
Gairish/ness  Same as Garish, Garishly, Garishness.
Gait  A going; a walk; a march; a way.
Gait  Manner of walking or stepping; bearing or carriage while moving.
Gaited  Having (such) a gait; -- used in composition; as, slow-gaited; heavy-gaited.
Gaiter  A covering of cloth or leather for the ankle and instep, or for the whole leg from the knee to the instep, fitting down upon the shoe.
Gaiter  A kind of shoe, consisting of cloth, and covering the ankle.
Gaiter  To dress with gaiters.
Gaitre  Alt. of Gaytre
Gaytre  The dogwood tree.
Gala  Pomp, show, or festivity.
Galacta-gogue  An agent exciting secretion of milk.
Galactic  Of or pertaining to milk; got from milk; as, galactic acid.
Galactic  Of or pertaining to the galaxy or Milky Way.
Galactin  An amorphous, gelatinous substance containing nitrogen, found in milk and other animal fluids. It resembles peptone, and is variously regarded as a coagulating or emulsifying agent.
Galactin  A white waxy substance found in the sap of the South American cow tree (Galactodendron).
Galactin  An amorphous, gummy carbohydrate resembling gelose, found in the seeds of leguminous plants, and yielding on decomposition several sugars, including galactose.
Galactodensimeter  Same as Galactometer.
Galactometer  An instrument for ascertaining the quality of milk (i.e., its richness in cream) by determining its specific gravity; a lactometer.
Galactophagist  One who eats, or subsists on, milk.
Galactophagous  Feeding on milk.
Galactophorous  Milk-carrying; lactiferous; -- applied to the ducts of mammary glands.
Galactopoietic  Increasing the flow of milk; milk-producing. -- n. A galactopoietic substance.
Galactose  A white, crystalline sugar, C6H12O6, isomeric with dextrose, obtained by the decomposition of milk sugar, and also from certain gums. When oxidized it forms mucic acid. Called also lactose (though it is not lactose proper).
Galage  See Galoche.
Galagos  of Galago
Galago  A genus of African lemurs, including numerous species.
Galanga  Alt. of Galangal
Galangal  The pungent aromatic rhizome or tuber of certain East Indian or Chinese species of Alpinia (A. Galanga and A. officinarum) and of the Kaempferia Galanga), -- all of the Ginger family.
Galantine  A dish of veal, chickens, or other white meat, freed from bones, tied up, boiled, and served cold.
Galapee  The West Indian Sciadophyllum Brownei, a tree with very large digitate leaves.
Galatian  Of or pertaining to Galatia or its inhabitants. -- A native or inhabitant of Galatia, in Asia Minor; a descendant of the Gauls who settled in Asia Minor.
Galaxies  of Galaxy
Galaxy  The Milky Way; that luminous tract, or belt, which is seen at night stretching across the heavens, and which is composed of innumerable stars, so distant and blended as to be distinguishable only with the telescope. The term has recently been used for remote clusters of stars.
Galaxy  A splendid assemblage of persons or things.
Galban  Alt. of Galbanum
Galbanum  A gum resin exuding from the stems of certain Asiatic umbelliferous plants, mostly species of Ferula. The Bubon Galbanum of South Africa furnishes an inferior kind of galbanum. It has an acrid, bitter taste, a strong, unpleasant smell, and is used for medical purposes, also in the arts, as in the manufacture of varnish.
Gale  A strong current of air; a wind between a stiff breeze and a hurricane. The most violent gales are called tempests.
Gale  A moderate current of air; a breeze.
Gale  A state of excitement, passion, or hilarity.
Gale  To sale, or sail fast.
Gale  A song or story.
Gale  To sing.
Gale  A plant of the genus Myrica, growing in wet places, and strongly resembling the bayberry. The sweet gale (Myrica Gale) is found both in Europe and in America.
Gale  The payment of a rent or annuity.
Galea  The upper lip or helmet-shaped part of a labiate flower.
Galea  A kind of bandage for the head.
Galea  Headache extending all over the head.
Galea  A genus of fossil echini, having a vaulted, helmet-shaped shell.
Galea  The anterior, outer process of the second joint of the maxillae in certain insects.
Galeas  See Galleass.
Galeate  Alt. of Galeated
Galeated  Wearing a helmet; protected by a helmet; covered, as with a helmet.
Galeated  Helmeted; having a helmetlike part, as a crest, a flower, etc.; helmet-shaped.
Galei  That division of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sharks.
Galena  A remedy or antidose for poison; theriaca.
Galena  Lead sulphide; the principal ore of lead. It is of a bluish gray color and metallic luster, and is cubic in crystallization and cleavage.
Galenic  Alt. of Galenical
Galenical  Pertaining to, or containing, galena.
Galenic  Alt. of Galenical
Galenical  Relating to Galen or to his principles and method of treating diseases.
Galenism  The doctrines of Galen.
Galenist  A follower of Galen.
Galenite  Galena; lead ore.
Gale-opithecus  A genus of flying Insectivora, formerly called flying lemurs. See Colugo.
Galericu-late  Covered as with a hat or cap.
Galerite  A cretaceous fossil sea urchin of the genus Galerites.
Galician  Of or pertaining to Galicia, in Spain, or to Galicia, the kingdom of Austrian Poland.
Galician  A native of Galicia in Spain; -- called also Gallegan.
Galilean  Of or pertaining to Galileo; as, the Galilean telescope. See Telescope.
Galilean  Of or relating to Galilee.
Galilean  A native or inhabitant of Galilee, the northern province of Palestine under the Romans.
Galilean  One of the party among the Jews, who opposed the payment of tribute to the Romans; -- called also Gaulonite.
Galilean  A Christian in general; -- used as a term of reproach by Mohammedans and Pagans.
Galilee  A porch or waiting room, usually at the west end of an abbey church, where the monks collected on returning from processions, where bodies were laid previous to interment, and where women were allowed to see the monks to whom they were related, or to hear divine service. Also, frequently applied to the porch of a church, as at Ely and Durham cathedrals.
Galimatias  Nonsense; gibberish; confused and unmeaning talk; confused mixture.
Galingale  A plant of the Sedge family (Cyperus longus) having aromatic roots; also, any plant of the same genus.
Galiot  A small galley, formerly used in the Mediterranean, built mainly for speed. It was moved both by sails and oars, having one mast, and sixteen or twenty seats for rowers.
Galiot  A strong, light-draft, Dutch merchant vessel, carrying a mainmast and a mizzenmast, and a large gaff mainsail.
Galipot  An impure resin of turpentine, hardened on the outside of pine trees by the spontaneous evaporation of its essential oil. When purified, it is called yellow pitch, white pitch, or Burgundy pitch.
Gall  The bitter, alkaline, viscid fluid found in the gall bladder, beneath the liver. It consists of the secretion of the liver, or bile, mixed with that of the mucous membrane of the gall bladder.
Gall  The gall bladder.
Gall  Anything extremely bitter; bitterness; rancor.
Gall  Impudence; brazen assurance.
Gall  An excrescence of any form produced on any part of a plant by insects or their larvae. They are most commonly caused by small Hymenoptera and Diptera which puncture the bark and lay their eggs in the wounds. The larvae live within the galls. Some galls are due to aphids, mites, etc. See Gallnut.
Gall  To impregnate with a decoction of gallnuts.
Galled  of Gall
Galling  of Gall
Gall  To fret and wear away by friction; to hurt or break the skin of by rubbing; to chafe; to injure the surface of by attrition; as, a saddle galls the back of a horse; to gall a mast or a cable.
Gall  To fret; to vex; as, to be galled by sarcasm.
Gall  To injure; to harass; to annoy; as, the troops were galled by the shot of the enemy.
Gall  To scoff; to jeer.
Gall  A wound in the skin made by rubbing.
Gallant  Showy; splendid; magnificent; gay; well-dressed.
Gallant  Noble in bearing or spirit; brave; high-spirited; courageous; heroic; magnanimous; as, a gallant youth; a gallant officer.
Gallant  Polite and attentive to ladies; courteous to women; chivalrous.
Gallant  A man of mettle or spirit; a gay; fashionable man; a young blood.
Gallant  One fond of paying attention to ladies.
Gallant  One who wooes; a lover; a suitor; in a bad sense, a seducer.
Gallanted  of Gallant
Gallanting  of Gallant
Gallant  To attend or wait on, as a lady; as, to gallant ladies to the play.
Gallant  To handle with grace or in a modish manner; as, to gallant a fan.
Gallantly  In a polite or courtly manner; like a gallant or wooer.
Gallantly  In a gallant manner.
Gallantness  The quality of being gallant.
Gallantries  of Gallantry
Gallantry  Splendor of appearance; ostentatious finery.
Gallantry  Bravery; intrepidity; as, the troops behaved with great gallantry.
Gallantry  Civility or polite attention to ladies; in a bad sense, attention or courtesy designed to win criminal favors from a female; freedom of principle or practice with respect to female virtue; intrigue.
Gallantry  Gallant persons, collectively.
Gallate  A salt of gallic acid.
Gallature  The tread, treadle, or chalasa of an egg.
Galleass  A large galley, having some features of the galleon, as broadside guns; esp., such a vessel used by the southern nations of Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries. See Galleon, and Galley.
Gallegan  Alt. of Gallego
Gallego  A native or inhabitant of Galicia, in Spain; a Galician.
Gallein  A red crystalline dyestuff, obtained by heating together pyrogallic and phthalic acids.
Galleon  A sailing vessel of the 15th and following centuries, often having three or four decks, and used for war or commerce. The term is often rather indiscriminately applied to any large sailing vessel.
Galleot  See Galiot.
Galleries  of Gallery
Gallery  A long and narrow corridor, or place for walking; a connecting passageway, as between one room and another; also, a long hole or passage excavated by a boring or burrowing animal.
Gallery  A room for the exhibition of works of art; as, a picture gallery; hence, also, a large or important collection of paintings, sculptures, etc.
Gallery  A long and narrow platform attached to one or more sides of public hall or the interior of a church, and supported by brackets or columns; -- sometimes intended to be occupied by musicians or spectators, sometimes designed merely to increase the capacity of the hall.
Gallery  A frame, like a balcony, projecting from the stern or quarter of a ship, and hence called stern gallery or quarter gallery, -- seldom found in vessels built since 1850.
Gallery  Any communication which is covered overhead as well as at the sides. When prepared for defense, it is a defensive gallery.
Gallery  A working drift or level.
Galletyle  A little tile of glazed earthenware.
Galleys  of Galley
Galley  A vessel propelled by oars, whether having masts and sails or not
Galley  A large vessel for war and national purposes; -- common in the Middle Ages, and down to the 17th century.
Galley  A name given by analogy to the Greek, Roman, and other ancient vessels propelled by oars.
Galley  A light, open boat used on the Thames by customhouse officers, press gangs, and also for pleasure.
Galley  One of the small boats carried by a man-of-war.
Galley  The cookroom or kitchen and cooking apparatus of a vessel; -- sometimes on merchant vessels called the caboose.
Galley  An oblong oven or muffle with a battery of retorts; a gallery furnace.
Galley  An oblong tray of wood or brass, with upright sides, for holding type which has been set, or is to be made up, etc.
Galley  A proof sheet taken from type while on a galley; a galley proof.
Galley-bird  The European green woodpecker; also, the spotted woodpecker.
Galley-worm  A chilognath myriapod of the genus Iulus, and allied genera, having numerous short legs along the sides; a milliped or "thousand legs." See Chilognatha.
Gallflies  of Gallfly
Gallfly  An insect that deposits its eggs in plants, and occasions galls, esp. any small hymenopteran of the genus Cynips and allied genera. See Illust. of Gall.
Gallyambic  Consisting of two iambic dimeters catalectic, the last of which lacks the final syllable; -- said of a kind of verse.
Gallian  Gallic; French.
Galliard  Gay; brisk; active.
Galliard  A brisk, gay man.
Galliard  A gay, lively dance. Cf. Gailliarde.
Galliardise  Excessive gayety; merriment.
Galliardness  Gayety.
Galliass  Same as Galleass.
Gallic  Pertaining to, or containing, gallium.
Gallic  Pertaining to, or derived from, galls, nutgalls, and the like.
Gallic  Pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallican.
Gallican  Of or pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallic; French; as, the Gallican church or clergy.
Gallican  An adherent to, and supporter of, Gallicanism.
Gallicanism  The principles, tendencies, or action of those, within the Roman Catholic Church in France, who (esp. in 1682) sought to restrict the papal authority in that country and increase the power of the national church.
Gallicism  A mode of speech peculiar to the French; a French idiom; also, in general, a French mode or custom.
Gallicized  of Gallicize
Gallicizing  of Gallicize
Gallicize  To conform to the French mode or idiom.
Gallied  Worried; flurried; frightened.
Galliform  Like the Gallinae (or Galliformes) in structure.
Galligaskins  Loose hose or breeches; leather leg quards. The word is used loosely and often in a jocose sense.
Gallimatia  Senseless talk. [Obs. or R.] See Galimatias.
Gallimaufries  of Gallimaufry
Gallimaufry  A hash of various kinds of meats, a ragout.
Gallimaufry  Any absurd medley; a hotchpotch.
Gallin  A substance obtained by the reduction of gallein.
Gallinaceae  Same as Gallinae.
Gallinacean  One of the Gallinae or gallinaceous birds.
Gallinaceous  Resembling the domestic fowls and pheasants; of or pertaining to the Gallinae.
Gallinae  An order of birds, including the common domestic fowls, pheasants, grouse, quails, and allied forms; -- sometimes called Rasores.
Galling  Fitted to gall or chafe; vexing; harassing; irritating.
Gallinipper  A large mosquito.
Gallinule  One of several wading birds, having long, webless toes, and a frontal shield, belonging to the family Rallidae. They are remarkable for running rapidly over marshes and on floating plants. The purple gallinule of America is Ionornis Martinica, that of the Old World is Porphyrio porphyrio. The common European gallinule (Gallinula chloropus) is also called moor hen, water hen, water rail, moor coot, night bird, and erroneously dabchick. Closely related to it is the Florida gallinule (Gallinula galeata).
Galliot  See Galiot.
Gallipoli  An inferior kind of olive oil, brought from Gallipoli, in Italy.
Gallipot  A glazed earthen pot or vessel, used by druggists and apothecaries for containing medicines, etc.
Gallium  A rare metallic element, found in certain zinc ores. It is white, hard, and malleable, resembling aluminium, and remarcable for its low melting point (86/ F., 30/C). Symbol Ga. Atomic weight 69.9.
Gallivant  To play the beau; to wait upon the ladies; also, to roam about for pleasure without any definite plan.
Gallivat  A small armed vessel, with sails and oars, -- used on the Malabar coast.
Galliwasp  A West Indian lizard (Celestus occiduus), about a foot long, imagined by the natives to be venomous.
Gallnut  A round gall produced on the leaves and shoots of various species of the oak tree. See Gall, and Nutgall.
Gallomania  An excessive admiration of what is French.
Gallon  A measure of capacity, containing four quarts; -- used, for the most part, in liquid measure, but sometimes in dry measure.
Galloon  A narrow tapelike fabric used for binding hats, shoes, etc., -- sometimes made ornamental.
Galloon  A similar bordering or binding of rich material, such as gold lace.
Gallooned  Furnished or adorned with galloon.
Galloped  of Gallop
Galloping  of Gallop
Gallop  To move or run in the mode called a gallop; as a horse; to go at a gallop; to run or move with speed.
Gallop  To ride a horse at a gallop.
Gallop  Fig.: To go rapidly or carelessly, as in making a hasty examination.
Gallop  To cause to gallop.
Gallop  A mode of running by a quadruped, particularly by a horse, by lifting alternately the fore feet and the hind feet, in successive leaps or bounds.
Gallopade  I horsemanship, a sidelong or curveting kind of gallop.
Gallopade  A kind of dance; also, music to the dance; a galop.
Gallopaded  of Gallopade
Gallopading  of Gallopade
Gallopade  To gallop, as on horseback.
Gallopade  To perform the dance called gallopade.
Galloper  One who, or that which, gallops.
Galloper  A carriage on which very small guns were formerly mounted, the gun resting on the shafts, without a limber.
Gallopin  An under servant for the kitchen; a scullion; a cook's errand boy.
Galloping  Going at a gallop; progressing rapidly; as, a galloping horse.
Gallotannic  Pertaining to the tannin or nutgalls.
Gallow  To fright or terrify. See Gally, v. t.
Galloway  A small horse of a breed raised at Galloway, Scotland; -- called also garran, and garron.
Gallowglass  A heavy-armed foot soldier from Ireland and the Western Isles in the time of Edward /
Gallowses  of Gallows
Gallows  of Gallows
Gallows  A frame from which is suspended the rope with which criminals are executed by hanging, usually consisting of two upright posts and a crossbeam on the top; also, a like frame for suspending anything.
Gallows  A wretch who deserves the gallows.
Gallows  The rest for the tympan when raised.
Gallows  A pair of suspenders or braces.
Gallstone  A concretion, or calculus, formed in the gall bladder or biliary passages. See Calculus, n., 1.
Gally  To frighten; to worry.
Gally  Like gall; bitter as gall.
Gally  See Galley, n., 4.
Gallygaskins  See Galligaskins.
Galoche  Alt. of Galoshe
Galoshe  A clog or patten.
Galoshe  Hence: An overshoe worn in wet weather.
Galoshe  A gaiter, or legging, covering the upper part of the shoe and part of the leg.
Galoot  A noisy, swaggering, or worthless fellow; a rowdy.
Galop  A kind of lively dance, in 2-4 time; also, the music to the dance.
Galore  Plenty; abundance; in abundance.
Galoshe  Same as Galoche.
Galpe  To gape,; to yawn.
Galsome  Angry; malignant.
Galt  Same as Gault.
Galvanic  Of or pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, galvanism; employing or producing electrical currents.
Galvanism  Electricity excited by the mutual action of certain liquids and metals; dynamical electricity.
Galvanism  The branch of physical science which treats of dynamical elecricity, or the properties and effects of electrical currents.
Galvanist  One versed in galvanism.
Galvanization  The act of process of galvanizing.
Galvanized  of Galvanize
Galvanizing  of Galvanize
Galvanize  To affect with galvanism; to subject to the action of electrical currents.
Galvanize  To plate, as with gold, silver, etc., by means of electricity.
Galvanize  To restore to consciousness by galvanic action (as from a state of suspended animation); hence, to stimulate or excite to a factitious animation or activity.
Galvanize  To coat, as iron, with zinc. See Galvanized iron.
Galvanizer  One who, or that which, galvanize.
Galvanocaustic  Relating to the use of galvanic heat as a caustic, especially in medicine.
Galvanocautery  Cautery effected by a knife or needle heated by the passage of a galvanic current.
Galvanoglyphy  Same as Glyphography.
Galvanograph  A copperplate produced by the method of galvanography; also, a picture printed from such a plate.
Galvanographic  Of or pertaining to galvanography.
Galvanography  The art or process of depositing metals by electricity; electrotypy.
Galvanography  A method of producing by means of electrotyping process (without etching) copperplates which can be printed from in the same manner as engraved plates.
Galvanologist  One who describes the phenomena of galvanism; a writer on galvanism.
Galvanology  A treatise on galvanism, or a description of its phenomena.
Galvanometer  An instrument or apparatus for measuring the intensity of an electric current, usually by the deflection of a magnetic needle.
Galvanometric  Of, pertaining to, or measured by, a galvanometer.
Galvanometry  The art or process of measuring the force of electric currents.
Galvanoplastic  Of or pertaining to the art or process of electrotyping; employing, or produced by, the process of electolytic deposition; as, a galvano-plastic copy of a medal or the like.
Galvanoplasty  The art or process of electrotypy.
Galvanopuncture  Same as Electro-puncture.
Galvanoscope  An instrument or apparatus for detecting the presence of electrical currents, especially such as are of feeble intensity.
Galvanoscopic  Of or pertaining to a galvanoscope.
Galvanoscopy  The use of galvanism in physiological experiments.
Galvanotonus  Same as Electrotonus.
Galvanotropism  The tendency of a root to place its axis in the line of a galvanic current.
Galwes  Gallows.
Gama  A species of grass (Tripsacum dactyloides) tall, stout, and exceedingly productive; cultivated in the West Indies, Mexico, and the Southern States of North America as a forage grass; -- called also sesame grass.
Gamashes  High boots or buskins; in Scotland, short spatterdashes or riding trousers, worn over the other clothing.
Gamba  A viola da gamba.
Gambadoes  Same as Gamashes.
Gambeson  Same as Gambison.
Gambet  Any bird of the genuis Totanus. See Tattler.
Gambier  The inspissated juice of a plant (Uncaria Gambir) growing in Malacca. It is a powerful astringent, and, under the name of Terra Japonica, is used for chewing with the Areca nut, and is exported for tanning and dyeing.
Gambier  Catechu.
Gambison  A defensive garment formerly in use for the body, made of cloth stuffed and quilted.
Gambist  A performer upon the viola di gamba. See under Viola.
Gambit  A mode of opening the game, in which a pawn is sacrificed to gain an attacking position.
Gambled  of Gamble
Gambling  of Gamble
Gamble  To play or game for money or other stake.
Gamble  To lose or squander by gaming; -- usually with away.
Gambler  One who gambles.
Gamboge  A concrete juice, or gum resin, produced by several species of trees in Siam, Ceylon, and Malabar. It is brought in masses, or cylindrical rolls, from Cambodia, or Cambogia, -- whence its name. The best kind is of a dense, compact texture, and of a beatiful reddish yellow. Taking internally, it is a strong and harsh cathartic and emetic.
Gambogian  Alt. of Gambogic
Gambogic  Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, gamboge.
Gambol  A skipping or leaping about in frolic; a hop; a sportive prank.
Gamboled  of Gambol
Gambolled  of Gambol
Gamboling  of Gambol
Gambolling  of Gambol
Gambol  To dance and skip about in sport; to frisk; to skip; to play in frolic, like boys or lambs.
Gambrel  The hind leg of a horse.
Gambrel  A stick crooked like a horse's hind leg; -- used by butchers in suspending slaughtered animals.
Gambrel  To truss or hang up by means of a gambrel.
Gambroon  A kind of twilled linen cloth for lining.
Game  Crooked; lame; as, a game leg.
Game  Sport of any kind; jest, frolic.
Game  A contest, physical or mental, according to certain rules, for amusement, recreation, or for winning a stake; as, a game of chance; games of skill; field games, etc.
Game  The use or practice of such a game; a single match at play; a single contest; as, a game at cards.
Game  That which is gained, as the stake in a game; also, the number of points necessary to be scored in order to win a game; as, in short whist five points are game.
Game  In some games, a point credited on the score to the player whose cards counts up the highest.
Game  A scheme or art employed in the pursuit of an object or purpose; method of procedure; projected line of operations; plan; project.
Game  Animals pursued and taken by sportsmen; wild meats designed for, or served at, table.
Game  Having a resolute, unyielding spirit, like the gamecock; ready to fight to the last; plucky.
Game  Of or pertaining to such animals as are hunted for game, or to the act or practice of hunting.
Gamed  of Game
Gaming  of Game
Game  To rejoice; to be pleased; -- often used, in Old English, impersonally with dative.
Game  To play at any sport or diversion.
Game  To play for a stake or prize; to use cards, dice, billiards, or other instruments, according to certain rules, with a view to win money or other thing waged upon the issue of the contest; to gamble.
Gamecock  The male game fowl.
Game  A handsome breed of the common fowl, remarkable for the great courage and pugnacity of the males.
Gameful  Full of game or games.
Gamekeeper  One who has the care of game, especially in a park or preserve.
Gameless  Destitute of game.
Gamely  In a plucky manner; spiritedly.
Gameness  Endurance; pluck.
Gamesome  Gay; sportive; playful; frolicsome; merry.
Gamester  A merry, frolicsome person.
Gamester  A person who plays at games; esp., one accustomed to play for a stake; a gambler; one skilled in games.
Gamester  A prostitute; a strumpet.
Gamic  Pertaining to, or resulting from, sexual connection; formed by the union of the male and female elements.
Gamin  A neglected and untrained city boy; a young street Arab.
Gaming  The act or practice of playing games for stakes or wagers; gambling.
Gamma  The third letter (/, / = Eng. G) of the Greek alphabet.
Gammadion  A cross formed of four capital gammas, formerly used as a mysterious ornament on ecclesiastical vestments, etc. See Fylfot.
Gammer  An old wife; an old woman; -- correlative of gaffer, an old man.
Gammon  The buttock or thigh of a hog, salted and smoked or dried; the lower end of a flitch.
Gammoned  of Gammon
Gammoning  of Gammon
Gammon  To make bacon of; to salt and dry in smoke.
Gammon  Backgammon.
Gammon  An imposition or hoax; humbug.
Gammon  To beat in the game of backgammon, before an antagonist has been able to get his "men" or counters home and withdraw any of them from the board; as, to gammon a person.
Gammon  To impose on; to hoax; to cajole.
Gammon  To fasten (a bowsprit) to the stem of a vessel by lashings of rope or chain, or by a band of iron.
Gammoning  The lashing or iron band by which the bowsprit of a vessel is secured to the stem to opposite the lifting action of the forestays.
Gammoning  The act of imposing upon or hoaxing a person.
Gamogenesis  The production of offspring by the union of parents of different sexes; sexual reproduction; -- the opposite of agamogenesis.
Gamogenetic  Relating to gamogenesis.
Gamomorphism  That stage of growth or development in an organism, in which the reproductive elements are generated and matured in preparation for propagating the species.
Gamopetalous  Having the petals united or joined so as to form a tube or cup; monopetalous.
Gamophyllous  Composed of leaves united by their edges (coalescent).
Gamosepalous  Formed of united sepals; monosepalous.
Gamut  The scale.
Gamy  Having the flavor of game, esp. of game kept uncooked till near the condition of tainting; high-flavored.
Gamy  Showing an unyielding spirit to the last; plucky; furnishing sport; as, a gamy trout.
Gan  Began; commenced.
Ganch  To drop from a high place upon sharp stakes or hooks, as the Turks dropped malefactors, by way of punishment.
Gander  The male of any species of goose.
Gane  To yawn; to gape.
Ganesa  The Hindoo god of wisdom or prudence.
Gang  To go; to walk.
Gang  A going; a course.
Gang  A number going in company; hence, a company, or a number of persons associated for a particular purpose; a group of laborers under one foreman; a squad; as, a gang of sailors; a chain gang; a gang of thieves.
Gang  A combination of similar implements arranged so as, by acting together, to save time or labor; a set; as, a gang of saws, or of plows.
Gang  A set; all required for an outfit; as, a new gang of stays.
Gang  The mineral substance which incloses a vein; a matrix; a gangue.
Ganger  One who oversees a gang of workmen.
Gangetic  Pertaining to, or inhabiting, the Ganges; as, the Gangetic shark.
Gang-flower  The common English milkwort (Polygala vulgaris), so called from blossoming in gang week.
Gangion  A short line attached to a trawl. See Trawl, n.
Gangliac  Alt. of Ganglial
Ganglial  Relating to a ganglion; ganglionic.
Gangliate  Alt. of Gangliated
Gangliated  Furnished with ganglia; as, the gangliated cords of the sympathetic nervous system.
Gangliform  Alt. of Ganglioform
Ganglioform  Having the form of a ganglion.
Ganglia  of Ganglion
Ganglions  of Ganglion
Ganglion  A mass or knot of nervous matter, including nerve cells, usually forming an enlargement in the course of a nerve.
Ganglion  A node, or gland in the lymphatic system; as, a lymphatic ganglion.
Ganglion  A globular, hard, indolent tumor, situated somewhere on a tendon, and commonly formed by the effusion of a viscid fluid into it; -- called also weeping sinew.
Ganglionary  Ganglionic.
Ganglionic  Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, ganglia or ganglion cells; as, a ganglionic artery; the ganglionic columns of the spinal cord.
Gangrel  Wandering; vagrant.
Gangrenate  To gangrene.
Gangrene  A term formerly restricted to mortification of the soft tissues which has not advanced so far as to produce complete loss of vitality; but now applied to mortification of the soft parts in any stage.
Gangrened  of Gangrene
Gangrening  of Gangrene
Gangrene  To produce gangrene in; to be affected with gangrene.
Gangrenescent  Tending to mortification or gangrene.
Gangrenous  Affected by, or produced by, gangrene; of the nature of gangrene.
Gangue  The mineral or earthy substance associated with metallic ore.
Gangway  A passage or way into or out of any inclosed place; esp., a temporary way of access formed of planks.
Gangway  In the English House of Commons, a narrow aisle across the house, below which sit those who do not vote steadly either with the government or with the opposition.
Gangway  The opening through the bulwarks of a vessel by which persons enter or leave it.
Gangway  That part of the spar deck of a vessel on each side of the booms, from the quarter-deck to the forecastle; -- more properly termed the waist.
Ganil  A kind of brittle limestone.
Ganister  Alt. of Gannister
Gannister  A refractory material consisting of crushed or ground siliceous stone, mixed with fire clay; -- used for lining Bessemer converters; also used for macadamizing roads.
Ganja  The dried hemp plant, used in India for smoking. It is extremely narcotic and intoxicating.
Gannet  One of several species of sea birds of the genus Sula, allied to the pelicans.
Ganocephala  A group of fossil amphibians allied to the labyrinthodonts, having the head defended by bony, sculptured plates, as in some ganoid fishes.
Ganocephalous  Of or pertaining to the Ganocephala.
Ganoid  Of or pertaining to Ganoidei. -- n. One of the Ganoidei.
Ganoidal  Ganoid.
Ganoidei  One of the subclasses of fishes. They have an arterial cone and bulb, spiral intestinal valve, and the optic nerves united by a chiasma. Many of the species are covered with bony plates, or with ganoid scales; others have cycloid scales.
Ganoidian  Ganoid.
Ganoine  A peculiar bony tissue beneath the enamel of a ganoid scale.
Gansa  Same as Ganza.
Gantlet  A military punishment formerly in use, wherein the offender was made to run between two files of men facing one another, who struck him as he passed.
Gantlet  A glove. See Gauntlet.
Gantline  A line rigged to a mast; -- used in hoisting rigging; a girtline.
Gantlope  See Gantlet.
Gantry  See Gauntree.
Ganza  A kind of wild goose, by a flock of which a virtuoso was fabled to be carried to the lunar world.
Gaol  A place of confinement, especially for minor offenses or provisional imprisonment; a jail.
Gaoler  The keeper of a jail. See Jailer.
Gap  An opening in anything made by breaking or parting; as, a gap in a fence; an opening for a passage or entrance; an opening which implies a breach or defect; a vacant space or time; a hiatus; a mountain pass.
Gap  To notch, as a sword or knife.
Gap  To make an opening in; to breach.
Gaped  of Gape
Gaping  of Gape
Gape  To open the mouth wide
Gape  Expressing a desire for food; as, young birds gape.
Gape  Indicating sleepiness or indifference; to yawn.
Gape  To pen or part widely; to exhibit a gap, fissure, or hiatus.
Gape  To long, wait eagerly, or cry aloud for something; -- with for, after, or at.
Gape  The act of gaping; a yawn.
Gape  The width of the mouth when opened, as of birds, fishes, etc.
Gaper  One who gapes.
Gaper  A European fish. See 4th Comber.
Gaper  A large edible clam (Schizothaerus Nuttalli), of the Pacific coast; -- called also gaper clam.
Gaper  An East Indian bird of the genus Cymbirhynchus, related to the broadbills.
Gapeseed  Any strange sight.
Gapesing  Act of gazing about; sightseeing.
Gapeworm  The parasitic worm that causes the gapes in birds. See Illustration in Appendix.
Gapingstock  One who is an object of open-mouthed wonder.
Gap-toothed  Having interstices between the teeth.
Gar  Any slender marine fish of the genera Belone and Tylosurus. See Garfish.
Gar  The gar pike. See Alligator gar (under Alligator), and Gar pike.
Gar  To cause; to make.
Garancin  An extract of madder by sulphuric acid. It consists essentially of alizarin.
Garb  Clothing in general.
Garb  The whole dress or suit of clothes worn by any person, especially when indicating rank or office; as, the garb of a clergyman or a judge.
Garb  Costume; fashion; as, the garb of a gentleman in the 16th century.
Garb  External appearance, as expressive of the feelings or character; looks; fashion or manner, as of speech.
Garb  A sheaf of grain (wheat, unless otherwise specified).
Garb  To clothe; array; deck.
Garbage  Offal, as the bowels of an animal or fish; refuse animal or vegetable matter from a kitchen; hence, anything worthless, disgusting, or loathsome.
Garbage  To strip of the bowels; to clean.
Garbed  Dressed; habited; clad.
Garbel  Same as Garboard.
Garbel  Anything sifted, or from which the coarse parts have been taken.
Garbled  of Garble
Garbling  of Garble
Garble  To sift or bolt, to separate the fine or valuable parts of from the coarse and useless parts, or from dros or dirt; as, to garble spices.
Garble  To pick out such parts of as may serve a purpose; to mutilate; to pervert; as, to garble a quotation; to garble an account.
Garble  Refuse; rubbish.
Garble  Impurities separated from spices, drugs, etc.; -- also called garblings.
Garbler  One who garbles.
Garboard  One of the planks next the keel on the outside, which form a garboard strake.
Garboil  Tumult; disturbance; disorder.
Garcinia  A genus of plants, including the mangosteen tree (Garcinia Mangostana), found in the islands of the Indian Archipelago; -- so called in honor of Dr. Garcin.
Gard  Garden.
Gard  See Guard.
Gardant  Turning the head towards the spectator, but not the body; -- said of a lion or other beast.
Garden  A piece of ground appropriated to the cultivation of herbs, fruits, flowers, or vegetables.
Garden  A rich, well-cultivated spot or tract of country.
Gardened  of Garden
Gardening  of Garden
Garden  To lay out or cultivate a garden; to labor in a garden; to practice horticulture.
Garden  To cultivate as a garden.
Gardener  One who makes and tends a garden; a horticulturist.
Gardenia  A genus of plants, some species of which produce beautiful and fragrant flowers; Cape jasmine; -- so called in honor of Dr. Alexander Garden.
Gardening  The art of occupation of laying out and cultivating gardens; horticulture.
Gardenless  Destitute of a garden.
Gardenly  Like a garden.
Gardenship  Horticulture.
Gardon  A European cyprinoid fish; the id.
Gardyloo  An old cry in throwing water, slops, etc., from the windows in Edingburgh.
Gare  Coarse wool on the legs of sheep.
Garefowl  The great auk; also, the razorbill. See Auk.
Garfish  A European marine fish (Belone vulgaris); -- called also gar, gerrick, greenback, greenbone, gorebill, hornfish, longnose, mackerel guide, sea needle, and sea pike.
Garfish  One of several species of similar fishes of the genus Tylosurus, of which one species (T. marinus) is common on the Atlantic coast. T. Caribbaeus, a very large species, and T. crassus, are more southern; -- called also needlefish. Many of the common names of the European garfish are also applied to the American species.
Gargalize  To gargle; to rinse.
Garganey  A small European duck (Anas querquedula); -- called also cricket teal, and summer teal.
Gargantuan  Characteristic of Gargantua, a gigantic, wonderful personage; enormous; prodigious; inordinate.
Gargarism  A gargle.
Gargarize  To gargle; to rinse or wash, as the mouth and throat.
Garget  The throat.
Garget  A diseased condition of the udders of cows, etc., arising from an inflammation of the mammary glands.
Garget  A distemper in hogs, indicated by staggering and loss of appetite.
Garget  See Poke.
Gargil  A distemper in geese, affecting the head.
Gargle  See Gargoyle.
Garggled  of Gargle
Gargling  of Gargle
Gargle  To wash or rinse, as the mouth or throat, particular the latter, agitating the liquid (water or a medicinal preparation) by an expulsion of air from the lungs.
Gargle  To warble; to sing as if gargling
Gargle  A liquid, as water or some medicated preparation, used to cleanse the mouth and throat, especially for a medical effect.
Gargol  A distemper in swine; garget.
Gargoulette  A water cooler or jug with a handle and spout; a gurglet.
Gargoyle  A spout projecting from the roof gutter of a building, often carved grotesquely.
Gargyle  See Gargoyle.
Garibaldi  A jacket worn by women; -- so called from its resemblance in shape to the red shirt worn by the Italians patriot Garibaldi.
Garibaldi  A California market fish (Pomancentrus rubicundus) of a deep scarlet color.
Garish  Showy; dazzling; ostentatious; attracting or exciting attention.
Garish  Gay to extravagance; flighty.
Garland  The crown of a king.
Garland  A wreath of chaplet made of branches, flowers, or feathers, and sometimes of precious stones, to be worn on the head like a crown; a coronal; a wreath.
Garland  The top; the thing most prized.
Garland  A book of extracts in prose or poetry; an anthology.
Garland  A sort of netted bag used by sailors to keep provision in.
Garland  A grommet or ring of rope lashed to a spar for convenience in handling.
Garlanded  of Garland
Garlanding  of Garland
Garland  To deck with a garland.
Garlandless  Destitute of a garland.
Garlic  A plant of the genus Allium (A. sativum is the cultivated variety), having a bulbous root, a very strong smell, and an acrid, pungent taste. Each root is composed of several lesser bulbs, called cloves of garlic, inclosed in a common membranous coat, and easily separable.
Garlic  A kind of jig or farce.
Garlicky  Like or containing garlic.
Garment  Any article of clothing, as a coat, a gown, etc.
Garmented  Having on a garment; attired; enveloped, as with a garment.
Garmenture  Clothing; dress.
Garner  A granary; a building or place where grain is stored for preservation.
Garnered  of Garner
Garnering  of Garner
Garner  To gather for preservation; to store, as in a granary; to treasure.
Garnet  A mineral having many varieties differing in color and in their constituents, but with the same crystallization (isometric), and conforming to the same general chemical formula. The commonest color is red, the luster is vitreous, and the hardness greater than that of quartz. The dodecahedron and trapezohedron are the common forms.
Garnet  A tackle for hoisting cargo in our out.
Garnetiferous  Containing garnets.
Garnierite  An amorphous mineral of apple-green color; a hydrous silicate of nickel and magnesia. It is an important ore of nickel.
Garnished  of Garnish
Garnishing  of Garnish
Garnish  To decorate with ornamental appendages; to set off; to adorn; to embellish.
Garnish  To ornament, as a dish, with something laid about it; as, a dish garnished with parsley.
Garnish  To furnish; to supply.
Garnish  To fit with fetters.
Garnish  To warn by garnishment; to give notice to; to garnishee. See Garnishee, v. t.
Garnish  Something added for embellishment; decoration; ornament; also, dress; garments, especially such as are showy or decorated.
Garnish  Something set round or upon a dish as an embellishment. See Garnish, v. t., 2.
Garnish  Fetters.
Garnish  A fee; specifically, in English jails, formerly an unauthorized fee demanded by the old prisoners of a newcomer.
Garnishee  One who is garnished; a person upon whom garnishment has been served in a suit by a creditor against a debtor, such person holding property belonging to the debtor, or owing him money.
Garnisheed  of Garnishee
Garnisheeing  of Garnishee
Garnishee  To make (a person) a garnishee; to warn by garnishment; to garnish.
Garnishee  To attach (the fund or property sought to be secured by garnishment); to trustee.
Garnisher  One who, or that which, garnishes.
Garnishment  Ornament; embellishment; decoration.
Garnishment  Warning, or legal notice, to one to appear and give information to the court on any matter.
Garnishment  Warning to a person in whose hands the effects of another are attached, not to pay the money or deliver the goods to the defendant, but to appear in court and give information as garnishee.
Garnishment  A fee. See Garnish, n., 4.
Garniture  That which garnishes; ornamental appendage; embellishment; furniture; dress.
Garookuh  A small fishing vessel met with in the Persian Gulf.
Garous  Pertaining to, or resembling, garum.
Gar  Alt. of Garpike
Garpike  See under Gar.
Garran  See Galloway.
Garret  A turret; a watchtower.
Garret  That part of a house which is on the upper floor, immediately under or within the roof; an attic.
Garreted  Protected by turrets.
Garreteer  One who lives in a garret; a poor author; a literary hack.
Garreting  Small splinters of stone inserted into the joints of coarse masonry.
Garrison  A body of troops stationed in a fort or fortified town.
Garrison  A fortified place, in which troops are quartered for its security.
Garrisoned  of Garrison
Garrisoning  of Garrison
Garrison  To place troops in, as a fortification, for its defense; to furnish with soldiers; as, to garrison a fort or town.
Garrison  To secure or defend by fortresses manned with troops; as, to garrison a conquered territory.
Garron  Same as Garran.
Garrot  A stick or small wooden cylinder used for tightening a bandage, in order to compress the arteries of a limb.
Garrot  The European golden-eye.
Garrote  A Spanish mode of execution by strangulation, with an iron collar affixed to a post and tightened by a screw until life become extinct; also, the instrument by means of which the punishment is inflicted.
Garroted  of Garrote
Garroting  of Garrote
Garrote  To strangle with the garrote; hence, to seize by the throat, from behind, with a view to strangle and rob.
Garroter  One who seizes a person by the throat from behind, with a view to strangle and rob him.
Garrulity  Talkativeness; loquacity.
Garrulous  Talking much, especially about commonplace or trivial things; talkative; loquacious.
Garrulous  Having a loud, harsh note; noisy; -- said of birds; as, the garrulous roller.
Garrupa  One of several species of California market fishes, of the genus Sebastichthys; -- called also rockfish. See Rockfish.
Garter  A band used to prevent a stocking from slipping down on the leg.
Garter  The distinguishing badge of the highest order of knighthood in Great Britain, called the Order of the Garter, instituted by Edward III.; also, the Order itself.
Garter  Same as Bendlet.
Gartered  of Garter
Gartering  of Garter
Garter  To bind with a garter.
Garter  To invest with the Order of the Garter.
Garth  A close; a yard; a croft; a garden; as, a cloister garth.
Garth  A dam or weir for catching fish.
Garth  A hoop or band.
Garum  A sauce made of small fish. It was prized by the ancients.
Garvie  The sprat; -- called also garvie herring, and garvock.
Gases  of Gas
Gas  An aeriform fluid; -- a term used at first by chemists as synonymous with air, but since restricted to fluids supposed to be permanently elastic, as oxygen, hydrogen, etc., in distinction from vapors, as steam, which become liquid on a reduction of temperature. In present usage, since all of the supposed permanent gases have been liquified by cold and pressure, the term has resumed nearly its original signification, and is applied to any substance in the elastic or aeriform state.
Gas  A complex mixture of gases, of which the most important constituents are marsh gas, olefiant gas, and hydrogen, artificially produced by the destructive distillation of gas coal, or sometimes of peat, wood, oil, resin, etc. It gives a brilliant light when burned, and is the common gas used for illuminating purposes.
Gas  Laughing gas.
Gas  Any irrespirable aeriform fluid.
Gasalier  A chandelier arranged to burn gas.
Gas-burner  The jet piece of a gas fixture where the gas is burned as it escapes from one or more minute orifices.
Gascoines  See Gaskins, 1.
Gascon  Of or pertaining to Gascony, in France, or to the Gascons; also, braggart; swaggering.
Gascon  A native of Gascony; a boaster; a bully. See Gasconade.
Gasconade  A boast or boasting; a vaunt; a bravado; a bragging; braggodocio.
Gasconaded  of Gasconade
Gasconading  of Gasconade
Gasconade  To boast; to brag; to bluster.
Gasconader  A great boaster; a blusterer.
Gascoynes  Gaskins.
Gaseity  State of being gaseous.
Gaseous  In the form, or of the nature, of gas, or of an aeriform fluid.
Gaseous  Lacking substance or solidity; tenuous.
Gashed  of Gash
Gashing  of Gash
Gash  To make a gash, or long, deep incision in; -- applied chiefly to incisions in flesh.
Gash  A deep and long cut; an incision of considerable length and depth, particularly in flesh.
Gashful  Full of gashes; hideous; frightful.
Gasification  The act or process of converting into gas.
Gasiform  Having a form of gas; gaseous.
Gasified  of Gasify
Gasifying  of Gasify
Gasify  To convert into gas, or an aeriform fluid, as by the application of heat, or by chemical processes.
Gasify  To become gas; to pass from a liquid to a gaseous state.
Gasket  A line or band used to lash a furled sail securely. Sea gaskets are common lines; harbor gaskets are plaited and decorated lines or bands. Called also casket.
Gasket  The plaited hemp used for packing a piston, as of the steam engine and its pumps.
Gasket  Any ring or washer of packing.
Gaskins  Loose hose or breeches; galligaskins.
Gaskins  Packing of hemp.
Gaskins  A horse's thighs.
Gaslight  The light yielded by the combustion of illuminating gas.
Gaslight  A gas jet or burner.
Gasogen  An apparatus for the generation of gases, or for impregnating a liquid with a gas, or a gas with a volatile liquid.
Gasogen  A volatile hydrocarbon, used as an illuminant, or for charging illuminating gas.
Gasolene  See Gasoline.
Gasolier  Same as Gasalier.
Gasoline  A highly volatile mixture of fluid hydrocarbons, obtained from petroleum, as also by the distillation of bituminous coal. It is used in making air gas, and in giving illuminating power to water gas. See Carburetor.
Gasometer  An apparatus for holding and measuring of gas; in gas works, a huge iron cylinder closed at one end and having the other end immersed in water, in which it is made to rise or fall, according to the volume of gas it contains, or the pressure required.
Gasometric  Alt. of Gasometrical
Gasometrical  Of or pertaining to the measurement of gases; as, gasometric analysis.
Gasometry  The art or practice of measuring gases; also, the science which treats of the nature and properties of these elastic fluids.
Gasoscope  An apparatus for detecting the presence of any dangerous gas, from a gas leak in a coal mine or a dwelling house.
Gasped  of Gasp
Gasping  of Gasp
Gasp  To open the mouth wide in catching the breath, or in laborious respiration; to labor for breath; to respire convulsively; to pant violently.
Gasp  To pant with eagerness; to show vehement desire.
Gasp  To emit or utter with gasps; -- with forth, out, away, etc.
Gasp  The act of opening the mouth convulsively to catch the breath; a labored respiration; a painful catching of the breath.
Gaspereau  The alewife.
Gasserian  Relating to Casserio (L. Gasserius), the discover of the Gasserian ganglion.
Gassing  The process of passing cotton goods between two rollers and exposing them to numerous minute jets of gas to burn off the small fibers; any similar process of singeing.
Gassing  Boasting; insincere or empty talk.
Gassy  Full of gas; like gas. Hence: [Colloq.] Inflated; full of boastful or insincere talk.
Gast  To make aghast; to frighten; to terrify. See Aghast.
Gaster  To gast.
Gasteromycetes  An order of fungi, in which the spores are borne inside a sac called the peridium, as in the puffballs.
Gasteropod  Same as Gastropod.
Gasteropoda  Same as Gastropoda.
Gasteropodous  Same as Gastropodous.
Gastful  Alt. of Gastly
Gastly  See Ghastful, Ghastly.
Gastight  So tightly fitted as to preclude the escape of gas; impervious to gas.
Gastness  See Ghastness.
Gastornis  A genus of large eocene birds from the Paris basin.
Gastraea  A primeval larval form; a double-walled sac from which, according to the hypothesis of Haeckel, man and all other animals, that in the first stages of their individual evolution pass through a two-layered structural stage, or gastrula form, must have descended. This idea constitutes the Gastraea theory of Haeckel. See Gastrula.
Gastralgia  Pain in the stomach or epigastrium, as in gastric disorders.
Gastric  Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the stomach; as, the gastric artery.
Gastriloquist  One who appears to speak from his stomach; a ventriloquist.
Gastriloquous  Ventriloquous.
Gastriloquy  A voice or utterance which appears to proceed from the stomach; ventriloquy.
Gastritis  Inflammation of the stomach, esp. of its mucuos membrane.
Gastro-  A combining form from the Gr. /, /, the stomach, or belly; as in gastrocolic, gastrocele, gastrotomy.
Gastrocnemius  The muscle which makes the greater part of the calf of the leg.
Gastrocolic  Pertaining to both the stomach and the colon; as, the gastrocolic, or great, omentum.
Gastrodisc  That part of blastoderm where the hypoblast appears like a small disk on the inner face of the epibladst.
Gastroduodenal  Pertaining to the stomach and duodenum; as, the gastroduodenal artery.
Gastroduodenitis  Inflammation of the stomach and duodenum. It is one of the most frequent causes of jaundice.
Gastroelytrotomy  The operation of cutting into the upper part of the vagina, through the abdomen (without opening the peritoneum), for the purpose of removing a fetus. It is a substitute for the Caesarean operation, and less dangerous.
Gastroenteric  Gastrointestinal.
Gastroenteritis  Inflammation of the lining membrane of the stomach and the intestines.
Gastroepiploic  Of or pertaining to the stomach and omentum.
Gastrohepatic  Pertaining to the stomach and liver; hepatogastric; as, the gastrohepatic, or lesser, omentum.
Gastrohysterotomy  Caesarean section. See under Caesarean.
Gastrointestinal  Of or pertaining to the stomach and intestines; gastroenteric.
Gastrolith  See Crab's eyes, under Crab.
Gastrology  The science which treats of the structure and functions of the stomach; a treatise of the stomach.
Gastromalacia  A softening of the coats of the stomach; -- usually a post-morten change.
Gastromancy  A kind of divination, by means of words seemingly uttered from the stomach.
Gastromancy  A species of divination, by means of glasses or other round, transparent vessels, in the center of which figures are supposed to appear by magic art.
Gastromyces  The fungoid growths sometimes found in the stomach; such as Torula, etc.
Gastromyth  One whose voice appears to proceed from the stomach; a ventriloquist.
Gastronome  Alt. of Gastronomer
Gastronomer  One fond of good living; an epicure.
Gastronomic  Alt. of Gastronomical
Gastronomical  Pertaining to gastromony.
Gastronomist  A gastromomer.
Gastronomy  The art or science of good eating; epicurism; the art of good cheer.
Gastrophrenic  Pertaining to the stomach and diaphragm; as, the gastrophrenic ligament.
Gastropneumatic  Pertaining to the alimentary canal and air passages, and to the cavities connected with them; as, the gastropneumatic mucuos membranes.
Gastropod  One of the Gastropoda.
Gastropoda  One of the classes of Mollusca, of great extent. It includes most of the marine spiral shells, and the land and fresh-water snails. They generally creep by means of a flat, muscular disk, or foot, on the ventral side of the body. The head usually bears one or two pairs of tentacles. See Mollusca.
Gastropodous  Of or pertaining to the Gastropoda.
Gastroraphy  The operation of sewing up wounds of the abdomen.
Gastroscope  An instrument for viewing or examining the interior of the stomach.
Gastroscopic  Of or pertaining to gastroscopy.
Gastroscopy  Examination of the abdomen or stomach, as with the gastroscope.
Gastrosplenic  Pertaining to the stomach and spleen; as, the gastrosplenic ligament.
Gastrostege  One of the large scales on the belly of a serpent.
Gastrostomy  The operation of making a permanent opening into the stomach, for the introduction of food.
Gastrotomy  A cutting into, or opening of, the abdomen or the stomach.
Gastrotricha  A group of small wormlike animals, having cilia on the ventral side. The group is regarded as an ancestral or synthetic one, related to rotifers and annelids.
Gastrotrocha  A form of annelid larva having cilia on the ventral side.
Gastrovascular  Having the structure, or performing the functions, both of digestive and circulatory organs; as, the gastrovascular cavity of c/lenterates.
Gastrulae  of Gastrula
Gastrula  An embryonic form having its origin in the invagination or pushing in of the wall of the planula or blastula (the blastosphere) on one side, thus giving rise to a double-walled sac, with one opening or mouth (the blastopore) which leads into the cavity (the archenteron) lined by the inner wall (the hypoblast). See Illust. under Invagination. In a more general sense, an ideal stage in embryonic development. See Gastraea.
Gastrula  Of or pertaining to a gastrula.
Gastrulation  The process of invagination, in embryonic development, by which a gastrula is formed.
Gastrura  See Stomatopoda.
Gastrurous  Pertaining to the Gastrura.
Gat  imp. of Get.
Gate  A large door or passageway in the wall of a city, of an inclosed field or place, or of a grand edifice, etc.; also, the movable structure of timber, metal, etc., by which the passage can be closed.
Gate  An opening for passage in any inclosing wall, fence, or barrier; or the suspended framework which closes or opens a passage. Also, figuratively, a means or way of entrance or of exit.
Gate  A door, valve, or other device, for stopping the passage of water through a dam, lock, pipe, etc.
Gate  The places which command the entrances or access; hence, place of vantage; power; might.
Gate  In a lock tumbler, the opening for the stump of the bolt to pass through or into.
Gate  The channel or opening through which metal is poured into the mold; the ingate.
Gate  The waste piece of metal cast in the opening; a sprue or sullage piece.
Gate  To supply with a gate.
Gate  To punish by requiring to be within the gates at an earlier hour than usual.
Gate  A way; a path; a road; a street (as in Highgate).
Gate  Manner; gait.
Gated  Having gates.
Gatehouse  A house connected or associated with a gate.
Gateless  Having no gate.
Gateman  A gate keeper; a gate tender.
Gatepost  A post to which a gate is hung; -- called also swinging / hinging post.
Gatepost  A post against which a gate closes; -- called also shutting post.
Gateway  A passage through a fence or wall; a gate; also, a frame, arch, etc., in which a gate in hung, or a structure at an entrance or gate designed for ornament or defense.
Gatewise  In the manner of a gate.
Gathered  of Gather
Gathering  of Gather
Gather  To bring together; to collect, as a number of separate things, into one place, or into one aggregate body; to assemble; to muster; to congregate.
Gather  To pick out and bring together from among what is of less value; to collect, as a harvest; to harvest; to cull; to pick off; to pluck.
Gather  To accumulate by collecting and saving little by little; to amass; to gain; to heap up.
Gather  To bring closely together the parts or particles of; to contract; to compress; to bring together in folds or plaits, as a garment; also, to draw together, as a piece of cloth by a thread; to pucker; to plait; as, to gather a ruffle.
Gather  To derive, or deduce, as an inference; to collect, as a conclusion, from circumstances that suggest, or arguments that prove; to infer; to conclude.
Gather  To gain; to win.
Gather  To bring together, or nearer together, in masonry, as where the width of a fireplace is rapidly diminished to the width of the flue, or the like.
Gather  To haul in; to take up; as, to gather the slack of a rope.
Gather  To come together; to collect; to unite; to become assembled; to congregate.
Gather  To grow larger by accretion; to increase.
Gather  To concentrate; to come to a head, as a sore, and generate pus; as, a boil has gathered.
Gather  To collect or bring things together.
Gather  A plait or fold in cloth, made by drawing a thread through it; a pucker.
Gather  The inclination forward of the axle journals to keep the wheels from working outward.
Gather  The soffit or under surface of the masonry required in gathering. See Gather, v. t., 7.
Gatherable  Capable of being gathered or collected; deducible from premises.
Gatherer  One who gathers or collects.
Gatherer  An attachment for making gathers in the cloth.
Gathering  The act of collecting or bringing together.
Gathering  That which is gathered, collected, or brought together
Gathering  A crowd; an assembly; a congregation.
Gathering  A charitable contribution; a collection.
Gathering  A tumor or boil suppurated or maturated; an abscess.
Gathering  Assembling; collecting; used for gathering or concentrating.
Gatling  An American machine gun, consisting of a cluster of barrels which, being revolved by a crank, are automatically loaded and fired.
Gatten  A name given to the small trees called guelder-rose (Viburnum Opulus), cornel (Cornus sanguinea), and spindle tree (Euonymus Europaeus).
Gat-toothed  Goat-toothed; having a lickerish tooth; lustful; wanton.
Gauche  Left handed; hence, awkward; clumsy.
Gauche  Winding; twisted; warped; -- applied to curves and surfaces.
Gaucherie  An awkward action; clumsiness; boorishness.
Gauchos  of Gaucho
Gaucho  One of the native inhabitants of the pampas, of Spanish-American descent. They live mostly by rearing cattle.
Gaud  Trick; jest; sport.
Gaud  Deceit; fraud; artifice; device.
Gaud  An ornament; a piece of worthless finery; a trinket.
Gaud  To sport or keep festival.
Gauded  of Gaud
Gauding  of Gaud
Gaud  To bedeck gaudily; to decorate with gauds or showy trinkets or colors; to paint.
Gaud-day  See Gaudy, a feast.
Gaudery  Finery; ornaments; ostentatious display.
Gaudful  Joyful; showy.
Gaudily  In a gaudy manner.
Gaudiness  The quality of being gaudy.
Gaudish  Gaudy.
Gaudless  Destitute of ornament.
Gaudy  Ostentatiously fine; showy; gay, but tawdry or meretricious.
Gaudy  Gay; merry; festal.
Gaudies  of Gaudy
Gaudy  One of the large beads in the rosary at which the paternoster is recited.
Gaudy  A feast or festival; -- called also gaud-day and gaudy day.
Gaudygreen  Light green.
Gauffer  To plait, crimp, or flute; to goffer, as lace. See Goffer.
Gauffering  A mode of plaiting or fluting.
Gauffre  A gopher, esp. the pocket gopher.
Gauged  of Gauge
Gauging  of Gauge
Gauge  To measure or determine with a gauge.
Gauge  To measure or to ascertain the contents or the capacity of, as of a pipe, barrel, or keg.
Gauge  To measure the dimensions of, or to test the accuracy of the form of, as of a part of a gunlock.
Gauge  To draw into equidistant gathers by running a thread through it, as cloth or a garment.
Gauge  To measure the capacity, character, or ability of; to estimate; to judge of.
Gauge  A measure; a standard of measure; an instrument to determine dimensions, distance, or capacity; a standard.
Gauge  Measure; dimensions; estimate.
Gauge  Any instrument for ascertaining or regulating the dimensions or forms of things; a templet or template; as, a button maker's gauge.
Gauge  Any instrument or apparatus for measuring the state of a phenomenon, or for ascertaining its numerical elements at any moment; -- usually applied to some particular instrument; as, a rain gauge; a steam gauge.
Gauge  Relative positions of two or more vessels with reference to the wind; as, a vessel has the weather gauge of another when on the windward side of it, and the lee gauge when on the lee side of it.
Gauge  The depth to which a vessel sinks in the water.
Gauge  The distance between the rails of a railway.
Gauge  The quantity of plaster of Paris used with common plaster to accelerate its setting.
Gauge  That part of a shingle, slate, or tile, which is exposed to the weather, when laid; also, one course of such shingles, slates, or tiles.
Gaugeable  Capable of being gauged.
Gauged  Tested or measured by, or conformed to, a gauge.
Gauger  One who gauges; an officer whose business it is to ascertain the contents of casks.
Gauger-ship  The office of a gauger.
Gauging  See Gauge rod, under Gauge, n.
Gaul  The Anglicized form of Gallia, which in the time of the Romans included France and Upper Italy (Transalpine and Cisalpine Gaul).
Gaul  A native or inhabitant of Gaul.
Gaulish  Pertaining to ancient France, or Gaul; Gallic.
Gault  A series of beds of clay and marl in the South of England, between the upper and lower greensand of the Cretaceous period.
Gaultheria  A genus of ericaceous shrubs with evergreen foliage, and, often, edible berries. It includes the American winter-green (Gaultheria procumbens), and the larger-fruited salal of Northwestern America (Gaultheria Shallon).
Gaunt  Attenuated, as with fasting or suffering; lean; meager; pinched and grim.
Gauntlet  See Gantlet.
Gauntlet  A glove of such material that it defends the hand from wounds.
Gauntlet  A long glove, covering the wrist.
Gauntlet  A rope on which hammocks or clothes are hung for drying.
Gauntletted  Wearing a gauntlet.
Gauntly  In a gaunt manner; meagerly.
Gauntree  Alt. of Gauntry
Gauntry  A frame for supporting barrels in a cellar or elsewhere.
Gauntry  A scaffolding or frame carrying a crane or other structure.
Gaur  An East Indian species of wild cattle (Bibos gauris), of large size and an untamable disposition.
Gaure  To gaze; to stare.
Gauze  A very thin, slight, transparent stuff, generally of silk; also, any fabric resembling silk gauze; as, wire gauze; cotton gauze.
Gauze  Having the qualities of gauze; thin; light; as, gauze merino underclothing.
Gauziness  The quality of being gauzy; flimsiness.
Gauzy  Pertaining to, or resembling, gauze; thin and slight as gauze.
Gave  imp. of Give.
Gavel  A gable.
Gavel  A small heap of grain, not tied up into a bundle.
Gavel  The mallet of the presiding officer in a legislative body, public assembly, court, masonic body, etc.
Gavel  A mason's setting maul.
Gavel  Tribute; toll; custom. [Obs.] See Gabel.
Gavelet  An ancient special kind of cessavit used in Kent and London for the recovery of rent.
Gavelkind  A tenure by which land descended from the father to all his sons in equal portions, and the land of a brother, dying without issue, descended equally to his brothers. It still prevails in the county of Kent.
Gaveloche  Same as Gavelock.
Gavelock  A spear or dart.
Gavelock  An iron crow or lever.
Gaverick  The European red gurnard (Trigla cuculus).
Gaviae  The division of birds which includes the gulls and terns.
Haaf  The deepsea fishing for cod, ling, and tusk, off the Shetland Isles.
Haak  A sea fish. See Hake.
Haar  A fog; esp., a fog or mist with a chill wind.
Habeas  A writ having for its object to bring a party before a court or judge; especially, one to inquire into the cause of a person's imprisonment or detention by another, with the view to protect the right to personal liberty; also, one to bring a prisoner into court to testify in a pending trial.
Habendum  That part of a deed which follows the part called the premises, and determines the extent of the interest or estate granted; -- so called because it begins with the word Habendum.
Haberdash  To deal in small wares.
Haberdasher  A dealer in small wares, as tapes, pins, needles, and thread; also, a hatter.
Haberdasher  A dealer in drapery goods of various descriptions, as laces, silks, trimmings, etc.
Haberdashery  The goods and wares sold by a haberdasher; also (Fig.), trifles.
Haberdine  A cod salted and dried.
Habergeon  Properly, a short hauberk, but often used loosely for the hauberk.
Habilatory  Of or pertaining to clothing; wearing clothes.
Habile  Fit; qualified; also, apt.
Habiliment  A garment; an article of clothing.
Habiliment  Dress, in general.
Habilimented  Clothed. Taylor (1630).
Habilitate  Qualified or entitled.
Habilitate  To fit out; to equip; to qualify; to entitle.
Habilitation  Equipment; qualification.
Hability  Ability; aptitude.
Habit  The usual condition or state of a person or thing, either natural or acquired, regarded as something had, possessed, and firmly retained; as, a religious habit; his habit is morose; elms have a spreading habit; esp., physical temperament or constitution; as, a full habit of body.
Habit  The general appearance and manner of life of a living organism.
Habit  Fixed or established custom; ordinary course of conduct; practice; usage; hence, prominently, the involuntary tendency or aptitude to perform certain actions which is acquired by their frequent repetition; as, habit is second nature; also, peculiar ways of acting; characteristic forms of behavior.
Habit  Outward appearance; attire; dress; hence, a garment; esp., a closely fitting garment or dress worn by ladies; as, a riding habit.
Habited  of Habit
Habiting  of Habit
Habit  To inhabit.
Habit  To dress; to clothe; to array.
Habit  To accustom; to habituate. [Obs.] Chapman.
Habitability  Habitableness.
Habitable  Capable of being inhabited; that may be inhabited or dwelt in; as, the habitable world.
Habitakle  A dwelling place.
Habitan  Same as Habitant, 2.
Habitance  Dwelling; abode; residence.
Habiitancy  Same as Inhabitancy.
Habitant  An inhabitant; a dweller.
Habitant  An inhabitant or resident; -- a name applied to and denoting farmers of French descent or origin in Canada, especially in the Province of Quebec; -- usually in plural.
Habitat  The natural abode, locality or region of an animal or plant.
Habitat  Place where anything is commonly found.
Habitation  The act of inhabiting; state of inhabiting or dwelling, or of being inhabited; occupancy.
Habitation  Place of abode; settled dwelling; residence; house.
Habitator  A dweller; an inhabitant.
Habited  Clothed; arrayed; dressed; as, he was habited like a shepherd.
Habited  Fixed by habit; accustomed.
Habited  Inhabited.
Habitual  Formed or acquired by habit or use.
Habitual  According to habit; established by habit; customary; constant; as, the habiual practice of sin.
Habituated  of Habituate
Habituating  of Habituate
Habituate  To make accustomed; to accustom; to familiarize.
Habituate  To settle as an inhabitant.
Habituate  Firmly established by custom; formed by habit; habitual.
Habituation  The act of habituating, or accustoming; the state of being habituated.
Habitude  Habitual attitude; usual or accustomed state with reference to something else; established or usual relations.
Habitude  Habitual association, intercourse, or familiarity.
Habitude  Habit of body or of action.
Habitue  One who habitually frequents a place; as, an habitue of a theater.
Habiture  Habitude.
Habitus  Habitude; mode of life; general appearance.
Hable  See Habile.
Habnab  By chance.
Hachure  A short line used in drawing and engraving, especially in shading and denoting different surfaces, as in map drawing. See Hatching.
Hacienda  A large estate where work of any kind is done, as agriculture, manufacturing, mining, or raising of animals; a cultivated farm, with a good house, in distinction from a farming establishment with rude huts for herdsmen, etc.; -- a word used in Spanish-American regions.
Hack  A frame or grating of various kinds; as, a frame for drying bricks, fish, or cheese; a rack for feeding cattle; a grating in a mill race, etc.
Hack  Unburned brick or tile, stacked up for drying.
Hacked  of Hack
Hacking  of Hack
Hack  To cut irregulary, without skill or definite purpose; to notch; to mangle by repeated strokes of a cutting instrument; as, to hack a post.
Hack  Fig.: To mangle in speaking.
Hack  To cough faintly and frequently, or in a short, broken manner; as, a hacking cough.
Hack  A notch; a cut.
Hack  An implement for cutting a notch; a large pick used in breaking stone.
Hack  A hacking; a catch in speaking; a short, broken cough.
Hack  A kick on the shins.
Hack  A horse, hackneyed or let out for common hire; also, a horse used in all kinds of work, or a saddle horse, as distinguished from hunting and carriage horses.
Hack  A coach or carriage let for hire; particularly, a a coach with two seats inside facing each other; a hackney coach.
Hack  A bookmaker who hires himself out for any sort of literary work; an overworked man; a drudge.
Hack  A procuress.
Hack  Hackneyed; hired; mercenary.
Hack  To use as a hack; to let out for hire.
Hack  To use frequently and indiscriminately, so as to render trite and commonplace.
Hack  To be exposed or offered or to common use for hire; to turn prostitute.
Hack  To live the life of a drudge or hack.
Hackamore  A halter consisting of a long leather or rope strap and headstall, -- used for leading or tieing a pack animal.
Hackberry  A genus of trees (Celtis) related to the elm, but bearing drupes with scanty, but often edible, pulp. C. occidentalis is common in the Eastern United States.
Hackbolt  The greater shearwater or hagdon. See Hagdon.
Hackbuss  Same as Hagbut.
Hackee  The chipmunk; also, the chickaree or red squirrel.
Hacker  One who, or that which, hacks. Specifically: A cutting instrument for making notches; esp., one used for notching pine trees in collecting turpentine; a hack.
Hackery  A cart with wooden wheels, drawn by bullocks.
Hackle  A comb for dressing flax, raw silk, etc.; a hatchel.
Hackle  Any flimsy substance unspun, as raw silk.
Hackle  One of the peculiar, long, narrow feathers on the neck of fowls, most noticeable on the cock, -- often used in making artificial flies; hence, any feather so used.
Hackle  An artificial fly for angling, made of feathers.
Hackled  of Hackle
Hackling  of Hackle
Hackle  To separate, as the coarse part of flax or hemp from the fine, by drawing it through the teeth of a hackle or hatchel.
Hackle  To tear asunder; to break in pieces.
Hackly  Rough or broken, as if hacked.
Hackly  Having fine, short, and sharp points on the surface; as, the hackly fracture of metallic iron.
Hackmen  of Hackman
Hackman  The driver of a hack or carriage for public hire.
Hackmatack  The American larch (Larix Americana), a coniferous tree with slender deciduous leaves; also, its heavy, close-grained timber. Called also tamarack.
Hackneys  of Hackney
Hackney  A horse for riding or driving; a nag; a pony.
Hackney  A horse or pony kept for hire.
Hackney  A carriage kept for hire; a hack; a hackney coach.
Hackney  A hired drudge; a hireling; a prostitute.
Hackney  Let out for hire; devoted to common use; hence, much used; trite; mean; as, hackney coaches; hackney authors.
Hackneyed  of Hackney
Hackneying  of Hackney
Hackney  To devote to common or frequent use, as a horse or carriage; to wear out in common service; to make trite or commonplace; as, a hackneyed metaphor or quotation.
Hackney  To carry in a hackney coach.
Hackneymen  of Hackneyman
Hackneyman  A man who lets horses and carriages for hire.
Hackster  A bully; a bravo; a ruffian; an assassin.
Hacqueton  Same as Acton.
Had  See Have.
Hadder  Heather; heath.
Haddie  The haddock.
Haddock  A marine food fish (Melanogrammus aeglefinus), allied to the cod, inhabiting the northern coasts of Europe and America. It has a dark lateral line and a black spot on each side of the body, just back of the gills. Galled also haddie, and dickie.
Hade  The descent of a hill.
Hade  The inclination or deviation from the vertical of any mineral vein.
Hade  To deviate from the vertical; -- said of a vein, fault, or lode.
Hades  The nether world (according to classical mythology, the abode of the shades, ruled over by Hades or Pluto); the invisible world; the grave.
Hadj  The pilgrimage to Mecca, performed by Mohammedans.
Hadji  A Mohammedan pilgrim to Mecca; -- used among Orientals as a respectful salutation or a title of honor.
Hadji  A Greek or Armenian who has visited the holy sepulcher at Jerusalem.
Hadrosaurus  An American herbivorous dinosaur of great size, allied to the iguanodon. It is found in the Cretaceous formation.
Haecceity  Literally, this-ness. A scholastic term to express individuality or singleness; as, this book.
Haema-  Alt. of Haemo-
Haemato-  Alt. of Haemo-
Haemo-  Combining forms indicating relation or resemblance to blood, association with blood; as, haemapod, haematogenesis, haemoscope.
Haemachrome  Hematin.
Haemacyanin  A substance found in the blood of the octopus, which gives to it its blue color.
Haemacytometer  An apparatus for determining the number of corpuscles in a given quantity of blood.
Haemad  Toward the haemal side; on the haemal side of; -- opposed to neurad.
Haemadrometer  Alt. of Haemadremometer
Haemadremometer  Same as Hemadrometer.
Haemadrometry  Alt. of Haemadromometry
Haemadromometry  Same as Hemadrometry.
Haemadromograph  An instrument for registering the velocity of the blood.
Haemadynameter  Alt. of Haemadynamometer
Haemadynamometer  Same as Hemadynamometer.
Haemadynamics  Same as Hemadynamics.
Haemal  Pertaining to the blood or blood vessels; also, ventral. See Hemal.
Haemaphaein  A brownish substance sometimes found in the blood, in cases of jaundice.
Haemapod  An haemapodous animal.
Haemapodous  Having the limbs on, or directed toward, the ventral or hemal side, as in vertebrates; -- opposed to neuropodous.
Haemapoietic  Bloodforming; as, the haemapoietic function of the spleen.
Haemapophysis  Same as Hemapophysis.
Haemastatics  Same as Hemastatics.
Haematachometer  A form of apparatus (somewhat different from the hemadrometer) for measuring the velocity of the blood.
Haematachometry  The measurement of the velocity of the blood.
Haematemesis  Same as Hematemesis.
Haematic  Of or pertaining to the blood; sanguine; brownish red.
Haematin  Same as Hematin.
Haematinometer  Same as Hematinometer.
Haematinometric  Same as Hematinometric.
Haematite  Same as Hematite.
Haematitic  Of a blood-red color; crimson; (Bot.) brownish red.
Haemato-  See Haema-.
Haematoblast  One of the very minute, disk-shaped bodies found in blood with the ordinary red corpuscles and white corpuscles; a third kind of blood corpuscle, supposed by some to be an early stage in the development of the red corpuscles; -- called also blood plaque, and blood plate.
Haematocrya  The cold-blooded vertebrates. Same as Hematocrya.
Haematocryal  Cold-blooded.
Haematocrystallin  Same as Hematocrystallin.
Haematodynamometer  Same as Hemadynamometer.
Haematogenesis  The origin and development of blood.
Haematogenesis  The transformation of venous arterial blood by respiration; hematosis.
Haematogenic  Relating to haematogenesis.
Haematogenous  Originating in the blood.
Haematoglobulin  Same as Hematoglobin.
Haematoid  Same as Hematoid.
Haematoidin  Same as Hematoidin.
Haematoin  A substance formed from the hematin of blood, by removal of the iron through the action of concentrated sulphuric acid. Two like bodies, called respectively haematoporphyrin and haematolin, are formed in a similar manner.
Haematolin  See Haematoin.
Haematology  The science which treats of the blood. Same as Hematology.
Haematometer  Same as Hemadynamometer.
Haematometer  An instrument for determining the number of blood corpuscles in a given quantity of blood.
Haematophlina  A division of Cheiroptera, including the bloodsucking bats. See Vampire.
Haematoplast  Same as Haematoblast.
Haematoplastic  Blood formative; -- applied to a substance in early fetal life, which breaks up gradually into blood vessels.
Haematoporphyrin  See Haematoin.
Haematosac  A vascular sac connected, beneath the brain, in many fishes, with the infundibulum.
Haematoscope  A haemoscope.
Haematosin  Hematin.
Haematosis  Same as Hematosis.
Haematotherma  Same as Hematotherma.
Haematothermal  Warm-blooded; homoiothermal.
Haematothorax  Same as Hemothorax.
Haematexylin  The coloring principle of logwood. It is obtained as a yellow crystalline substance, C16H14O6, with a sweetish taste. Formerly called also hematin.
Haematoxylon  A genus of leguminous plants containing but a single species, the H. Campechianum or logwood tree, native in Yucatan.
Haematozoa  of Haematozoon
Haematozoon  A parasite inhabiting the blood
Haematozoon  Certain species of nematodes of the genus Filaria, sometimes found in the blood of man, the horse, the dog, etc.
Haematozoon  The trematode, Bilharzia haematobia, which infests the inhabitants of Egypt and other parts of Africa, often causing death.
Haemic  Pertaining to the blood; hemal.
Haemin  Same as Hemin.
Haemo-  See Haema-.
Haemochrome  Same as Haemachrome.
Haemochromogen  A body obtained from hemoglobin, by the action of reducing agents in the absence of oxygen.
Haemochromometer  An apparatus for measuring the amount of hemoglobin in a fluid, by comparing it with a solution of known strength and of normal color.
Haemocyanin  Same as Haemacyanin.
Haemocytolysis  See Haemocytotrypsis.
Haemocytometer  See Haemacytometer.
Haemocytotrypsis  A breaking up of the blood corpuscles, as by pressure, in distinction from solution of the corpuscles, or haemcytolysis.
Haemodromograph  Same as Haemadromograph.
Haemodynameter  Same as Hemadynamics.
Haemoglobin  Same as Hemoglobin.
Haemoglobinometer  Same as Hemochromometer.
Haemolutein  See Hematoidin.
Haemomanometer  Same as Hemadynamometer.
Haemometer  Same as Hemadynamometer.
Haemony  A plant described by Milton as "of sovereign use against all enchantments."
Haemoplastic  Same as Haematoplastic.
Haemorrhoidal  Same as Hemorrhoidal.
Haemoscope  An instrument devised by Hermann, for regulating and measuring the thickness of a layer of blood for spectroscopic examination.
Haemostatic  Same as Hemostatic.
Haemotachometer  Same as Haematachometer.
Haemotachometry  Same as Haematachometry.
Haf  Hove.
Haffle  To stammer; to speak unintelligibly; to prevaricate.
Haft  A handle; that part of an instrument or vessel taken into the hand, and by which it is held and used; -- said chiefly of a knife, sword, or dagger; the hilt.
Haft  A dwelling.
Haft  To set in, or furnish with, a haft; as, to haft a dagger.
Hafter  A caviler; a wrangler.
Hag  A witch, sorceress, or enchantress; also, a wizard.
Hag  An ugly old woman.
Hag  A fury; a she-monster.
Hag  An eel-like marine marsipobranch (Myxine glutinosa), allied to the lamprey. It has a suctorial mouth, with labial appendages, and a single pair of gill openings. It is the type of the order Hyperotpeta. Called also hagfish, borer, slime eel, sucker, and sleepmarken.
Hag  The hagdon or shearwater.
Hag  An appearance of light and fire on a horse's mane or a man's hair.
Hagged  of Hag
Hagging  of Hag
Hag  To harass; to weary with vexation.
Hag  A small wood, or part of a wood or copse, which is marked off or inclosed for felling, or which has been felled.
Hag  A quagmire; mossy ground where peat or turf has been cut.
Hagberry  A plant of the genus Prunus (P. Padus); the bird cherry.
Hagborn  Born of a hag or witch.
Hagbut  A harquebus, of which the but was bent down or hooked for convenience in taking aim.
Hagbutter  A soldier armed with a hagbut or arquebus.
Hagdon  One of several species of sea birds of the genus Puffinus; esp., P. major, the greater shearwarter, and P. Stricklandi, the black hagdon or sooty shearwater; -- called also hagdown, haglin, and hag. See Shearwater.
Haggadoth  of Haggada
Haggada  A story, anecdote, or legend in the Talmud, to explain or illustrate the text of the Old Testament.
Haggard  Wild or intractable; disposed to break away from duty; untamed; as, a haggard or refractory hawk.
Haggard  Having the expression of one wasted by want or suffering; hollow-eyed; having the features distorted or wasted, or anxious in appearance; as, haggard features, eyes.
Haggard  A young or untrained hawk or falcon.
Haggard  A fierce, intractable creature.
Haggard  A hag.
Haggard  A stackyard.
Haggardly  In a haggard manner.
Hagged  Like a hag; lean; ugly.
Haggis  A Scotch pudding made of the heart, liver, lights, etc., of a sheep or lamb, minced with suet, onions, oatmeal, etc., highly seasoned, and boiled in the stomach of the same animal; minced head and pluck.
Haggish  Like a hag; ugly; wrinkled.
Haggishly  In the manner of a hag.
Haggled  of Haggle
Haggling  of Haggle
Haggle  To cut roughly or hack; to cut into small pieces; to notch or cut in an unskillful manner; to make rough or mangle by cutting; as, a boy haggles a stick of wood.
Haggle  To be difficult in bargaining; to stick at small matters; to chaffer; to higgle.
Haggle  The act or process of haggling.
Haggler  One who haggles or is difficult in bargaining.
Haggler  One who forestalls a market; a middleman between producer and dealer in London vegetable markets.
Hagiarchy  A sacred government; by holy orders of men.
Hagiocracy  Government by a priesthood; hierarchy.
Hagiographa  The last of the three Jewish divisions of the Old Testament, or that portion not contained in the Law and the Prophets. It comprises Psalms, Proverbs, Job, Canticles, Ruth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, Esther, Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Chronicles.
Hagiographa  The lives of the saints.
Hagiographal  Pertaining to the hagiographa, or to sacred writings.
Hagiographer  One of the writers of the hagiographa; a writer of lives of the saints.
Hagiography  Same Hagiographa.
Hagiolatry  The invocation or worship of saints.
Hagiologist  One who treats of the sacred writings; a writer of the lives of the saints; a hagiographer.
Hagiology  The history or description of the sacred writings or of sacred persons; a narrative of the lives of the saints; a catalogue of saints.
Hagioscope  An opening made in the interior walls of a cruciform church to afford a view of the altar to those in the transepts; -- called, in architecture, a squint.
Hag-ridden  Ridden by a hag or witch; hence, afflicted with nightmare.
Hagseed  The offspring of a hag.
Hagship  The state or title of a hag.
Hag-taper  The great woolly mullein (Verbascum Thapsus).
Haguebut  See Hagbut.
Hah  Same as Ha.
Ha-ha  A sunk fence; a fence, wall, or ditch, not visible till one is close upon it.
Haidingerite  A mineral consisting of the arseniate of lime; -- so named in honor of W. Haidinger, of Vienna.
Haiduck  Formerly, a mercenary foot soldier in Hungary, now, a halberdier of a Hungarian noble, or an attendant in German or Hungarian courts.
Haik  A large piece of woolen or cotton cloth worn by Arabs as an outer garment.
Haikal  The central chapel of the three forming the sanctuary of a Coptic church. It contains the high altar, and is usually closed by an embroidered curtain.
Hail  Small roundish masses of ice precipitated from the clouds, where they are formed by the congelation of vapor. The separate masses or grains are called hailstones.
Halled  of Hail
Halting  of Hail
Hail  To pour down particles of ice, or frozen vapors.
Hail  To pour forcibly down, as hail.
Hail  Healthy. See Hale (the preferable spelling).
Hail  To call loudly to, or after; to accost; to salute; to address.
Hail  To name; to designate; to call.
Hail  To declare, by hailing, the port from which a vessel sails or where she is registered; hence, to sail; to come; -- used with from; as, the steamer hails from New York.
Hail  To report as one's home or the place from whence one comes; to come; -- with from.
Hail  An exclamation of respectful or reverent salutation, or, occasionally, of familiar greeting.
Hail  A wish of health; a salutation; a loud call.
Hail-fellow  An intimate companion.
Hailse  To greet; to salute.
Hailshot  Small shot which scatter like hailstones.
Hailstone  A single particle of ice falling from a cloud; a frozen raindrop; a pellet of hail.
Hailstorm  A storm accompanied with hail; a shower of hail.
Haily  Of hail.
Han  To inclose for mowing; to set aside for grass.
Hain't  A contraction of have not or has not; as, I hain't, he hain't, we hain't.
Hair  The collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of an animal, and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole of the body.
Hair  One the above-mentioned filaments, consisting, in invertebrate animals, of a long, tubular part which is free and flexible, and a bulbous root imbedded in the skin.
Hair  Hair (human or animal) used for various purposes; as, hair for stuffing cushions.
Hair  A slender outgrowth from the chitinous cuticle of insects, spiders, crustaceans, and other invertebrates. Such hairs are totally unlike those of vertebrates in structure, composition, and mode of growth.
Hair  An outgrowth of the epidermis, consisting of one or of several cells, whether pointed, hooked, knobbed, or stellated. Internal hairs occur in the flower stalk of the yellow frog lily (Nuphar).
Hair  A spring device used in a hair-trigger firearm.
Hair  A haircloth.
Hair  Any very small distance, or degree; a hairbreadth.
Hairbell  See Harebell.
Hairbird  The chipping sparrow.
Hairbrained  See Harebrained.
Hairbreadth  Alt. of Hair'sbreadth
Hair'sbreadth  The diameter or breadth of a hair; a very small distance; sometimes, definitely, the forty-eighth part of an inch.
Hairbreadth  Having the breadth of a hair; very narrow; as, a hairbreadth escape.
Hair-brown  Of a clear tint of brown, resembling brown human hair. It is composed of equal proportions of red and green.
Hairbrush  A brush for cleansing and smoothing the hair.
Haircloth  Stuff or cloth made wholly or in part of hair.
Hairdresser  One who dresses or cuts hair; a barber.
Haired  Having hair.
Haired  In composition: Having (such) hair; as, red-haired.
Hairen  Hairy.
Hair  A grass with very slender leaves or branches; as the Agrostis scabra, and several species of Aira or Deschampsia.
Hairiness  The state of abounding, or being covered, with hair.
Hairless  Destitute of hair.
Hairpin  A pin, usually forked, or of bent wire, for fastening the hair in place, -- used by women.
Hair-salt  A variety of native Epsom salt occurring in silky fibers.
Hairsplitter  One who makes excessively nice or needless distinctions in reasoning; one who quibbles.
Hairsplitting  Making excessively nice or trivial distinctions in reasoning; subtle.
Hairsplitting  The act or practice of making trivial distinctions.
Hairspring  The slender recoil spring which regulates the motion of the balance in a timepiece.
Hairstreak  A butterfly of the genus Thecla; as, the green hairstreak (T. rubi).
Hairtail  Any species of marine fishes of the genus Trichiurus; esp., T. lepterus of Europe and America. They are long and like a band, with a slender, pointed tail. Called also bladefish.
Hairworm  A nematoid worm of the genus Gordius, resembling a hair. See Gordius.
Hairy  Bearing or covered with hair; made of or resembling hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; hirsute.
Haitian  See Haytian.
Haye  The Egyptian asp or cobra (Naja haje.) It is related to the cobra of India, and like the latter has the power of inflating its neck into a hood. Its bite is very venomous. It is supposed to be the snake by means of whose bite Cleopatra committed suicide, and hence is sometimes called Cleopatra's snake or asp. See Asp.
Hake  A drying shed, as for unburned tile.
Hake  One of several species of marine gadoid fishes, of the genera Phycis, Merlucius, and allies. The common European hake is M. vulgaris; the American silver hake or whiting is M. bilinearis. Two American species (Phycis chuss and P. tenius) are important food fishes, and are also valued for their oil and sounds. Called also squirrel hake, and codling.
Hake  To loiter; to sneak.
Hake's-dame  See Forkbeard.
Haketon  Same as Acton.
Hakim  A wise man; a physician, esp. a Mohammedan.
Hakim  A Mohammedan title for a ruler; a judge.
Halachoth  of Halacha
Halacha  The general term for the Hebrew oral or traditional law; one of two branches of exposition in the Midrash. See Midrash.
Halation  An appearance as of a halo of light, surrounding the edges of dark objects in a photographic picture.
Halberd  An ancient long-handled weapon, of which the head had a point and several long, sharp edges, curved or straight, and sometimes additional points. The heads were sometimes of very elaborate form.
Halberdier  One who is armed with a halberd.
Halberd-shaped  Hastate.
Halcyon  A kingfisher. By modern ornithologists restricted to a genus including a limited number of species having omnivorous habits, as the sacred kingfisher (Halcyon sancta) of Australia.
Halcyon  Pertaining to, or resembling, the halcyon, which was anciently said to lay her eggs in nests on or near the sea during the calm weather about the winter solstice.
Halcyon  Hence: Calm; quiet; peaceful; undisturbed; happy.
Halcyonian  Halcyon; calm.
Halcyonold  See Alcyonoid.
Hale  Sound; entire; healthy; robust; not impaired; as, a hale body.
Hale  Welfare.
Haled  of Hale
Haling  of Hale
Hale  To pull; to drag; to haul.
Halesia  A genus of American shrubs containing several species, called snowdrop trees, or silver-bell trees. They have showy, white flowers, drooping on slender pedicels.
Half  Consisting of a moiety, or half; as, a half bushel; a half hour; a half dollar; a half view.
Half  Consisting of some indefinite portion resembling a half; approximately a half, whether more or less; partial; imperfect; as, a half dream; half knowledge.
Half  In an equal part or degree; in some pa/ appro/mating a half; partially; imperfectly; as, half-colored, half done, half-hearted, half persuaded, half conscious.
Halves  of Half
Half  Part; side; behalf.
Half  One of two equal parts into which anything may be divided, or considered as divided; -- sometimes followed by of; as, a half of an apple.
Half  To halve. [Obs.] See Halve.
Half-and-half  A mixture of two malt liquors, esp. porter and ale, in about equal parts.
Halfbeak  Any slender, marine fish of the genus Hemirhamphus, having the upper jaw much shorter than the lower; -- called also balahoo.
Half  The relation between persons born of the same father or of the same mother, but not of both; as, a brother or sister of the half blood. See Blood, n., 2 and 4.
Half  A person so related to another.
Half  A person whose father and mother are of different races; a half-breed.
Half-blooded  Proceeding from a male and female of different breeds or races; having only one parent of good stock; as, a half-blooded sheep.
Half-blooded  Degenerate; mean.
Half-boot  A boot with a short top covering only the ankle. See Cocker, and Congress boot, under Congress.
Half-bound  Having only the back and corners in leather, as a book.
Half-bred  Half-blooded.
Half-bred  Imperfectly acquainted with the rules of good-breeding; not well trained.
Half-breed  Half-blooded.
Half-breed  A person who is blooded; the offspring of parents of different races, especially of the American Indian and the white race.
Half-brother  A brother by one parent, but not by both.
Half-caste  One born of a European parent on the one side, and of a Hindoo or Mohammedan on the other. Also adjective; as, half-caste parents.
Half-clammed  Half-filled.
Halfcocked  of Halfcock
Halfcocking  of Halfcock
Halfcock  To set the cock of (a firearm) at the first notch.
Half-cracked  Half-demented; half-witted.
Half-deck  A shell of the genus Crepidula; a boat shell. See Boat shell.
Half-deck  See Half deck, under Deck.
Half-decked  Partially decked.
Halfen  Wanting half its due qualities.
Halfendeal  Half; by the part.
Halfendeal  A half part.
Halfer  One who possesses or gives half only; one who shares.
Halfer  A male fallow deer gelded.
Half-faced  Showing only part of the face; wretched looking; meager.
Half-fish  A salmon in its fifth year of growth.
Half-hatched  Imperfectly hatched; as, half-hatched eggs.
Half-heard  Imperfectly or partly heard to the end.
Half-hearted  Wanting in heart or spirit; ungenerous; unkind.
Half-hearted  Lacking zeal or courage; lukewarm.
Half-hourly  Done or happening at intervals of half an hour.
Half-learned  Imperfectly learned.
Half-length  Of half the whole or ordinary length, as a picture.
Half-mast  A point some distance below the top of a mast or staff; as, a flag a half-mast (a token of mourning, etc.).
Half-moon  The moon at the quarters, when half its disk appears illuminated.
Half-moon  The shape of a half-moon; a crescent.
Half-moon  An outwork composed of two faces, forming a salient angle whose gorge resembles a half-moon; -- now called a ravelin.
Half-moon  A marine, sparoid, food fish of California (Caesiosoma Californiense). The body is ovate, blackish above, blue or gray below. Called also medialuna.
Halfness  The quality of being half; incompleteness.
Halfpace  A platform of a staircase where the stair turns back in exactly the reverse direction of the lower flight. See Quarterpace.
Half-pike  A short pike, sometimes carried by officers of infantry, sometimes used in boarding ships; a spontoon.
Half-port  One half of a shutter made in two parts for closing a porthole.
Half-ray  A straight line considered as drawn from a center to an indefinite distance in one direction, the complete ray being the whole line drawn to an indefinite distance in both directions.
Half-read  Informed by insufficient reading; superficial; shallow.
Half  Half drunk.
Half-sighted  Seeing imperfectly; having weak discernment.
Half-sister  A sister by one parent only.
Half-strained  Half-bred; imperfect.
Half-sword  Half the length of a sword; close fight.
Half-timbered  Constructed of a timber frame, having the spaces filled in with masonry; -- said of buildings.
Half-tounue  A jury, for the trial of a foreigner, composed equally of citizens and aliens.
Halfway  In the middle; at half the distance; imperfectly; partially; as, he halfway yielded.
Halfway  Equally distant from the extremes; situated at an intermediate point; midway.
Half-wit  A foolish; a dolt; a blockhead; a dunce.
Half-witted  Weak in intellect; silly.
Half-yearly  Two in a year; semiannual. -- adv. Twice in a year; semiannually.
Halibut  A large, northern, marine flatfish (Hippoglossus vulgaris), of the family Pleuronectidae. It often grows very large, weighing more than three hundred pounds. It is an important food fish.
Halichondriae  An order of sponges, having simple siliceous spicules and keratose fibers; -- called also Keratosilicoidea.
Halicore  Same as Dugong.
Halidom  Holiness; sanctity; sacred oath; sacred things; sanctuary; -- used chiefly in oaths.
Halidom  Holy doom; the Last Day.
Halieutics  A treatise upon fish or the art of fishing; ichthyology.
Halmas  The feast of All Saints; Hallowmas.
Haliographer  One who writes about or describes the sea.
Haliography  Description of the sea; the science that treats of the sea.
Haliotis  A genus of marine shells; the ear-shells. See Abalone.
Haliotoid  Like or pertaining to the genus Haliotis; ear-shaped.
Halisauria  The Enaliosauria.
Halite  Native salt; sodium chloride.
Halituous  Produced by, or like, breath; vaporous.
Halk  A nook; a corner.
Hall  A building or room of considerable size and stateliness, used for public purposes; as, Westminster Hall, in London.
Hall  The chief room in a castle or manor house, and in early times the only public room, serving as the place of gathering for the lord's family with the retainers and servants, also for cooking and eating. It was often contrasted with the bower, which was the private or sleeping apartment.
Hall  A vestibule, entrance room, etc., in the more elaborated buildings of later times.
Hall  Any corridor or passage in a building.
Hall  A name given to many manor houses because the magistrate's court was held in the hall of his mansion; a chief mansion house.
Hall  A college in an English university (at Oxford, an unendowed college).
Hall  The apartment in which English university students dine in common; hence, the dinner itself; as, hall is at six o'clock.
Hall  Cleared passageway in a crowd; -- formerly an exclamation.
Hallage  A fee or toll paid for goods sold in a hall.
Halleluiah  Alt. of Hallelujah
Hallelujah  Praise ye Jehovah; praise ye the Lord; -- an exclamation used chiefly in songs of praise or thanksgiving to God, and as an expression of gratitude or adoration.
Hallelujatic  Pertaining to, or containing, hallelujahs.
Halliard  See Halyard.
Hallidome  Same as Halidom.
Hallier  A kind of net for catching birds.
Hall-mark  The official stamp of the Goldsmiths' Company and other assay offices, in the United Kingdom, on gold and silver articles, attesting their purity. Also used figuratively; -- as, a word or phrase lacks the hall-mark of the best writers.
Halloa  See Halloo.
Halloo  A loud exclamation; a call to invite attention or to incite a person or an animal; a shout.
Hallooed  of Halloo
Halloing  of Halloo
Halloo  To cry out; to exclaim with a loud voice; to call to a person, as by the word halloo.
Halloo  To encourage with shouts.
Halloo  To chase with shouts or outcries.
Halloo  To call or shout to; to hail.
Halloo  An exclamation to call attention or to encourage one.
Hallowed  of Hallow
Hallowing  of Hallow
Hallow  To make holy; to set apart for holy or religious use; to consecrate; to treat or keep as sacred; to reverence.
Halloween  The evening preceding Allhallows or All Saints' Day.
Hallowmas  The feast of All Saints, or Allhallows.
Halloysite  A claylike mineral, occurring in soft, smooth, amorphous masses, of a whitish color.
Hallucal  Of or pertaining to the hallux.
Hallucinate  To wander; to go astray; to err; to blunder; -- used of mental processes.
Hallucination  The act of hallucinating; a wandering of the mind; error; mistake; a blunder.
Hallucination  The perception of objects which have no reality, or of sensations which have no corresponding external cause, arising from disorder or the nervous system, as in delirium tremens; delusion.
Hallucinator  One whose judgment and acts are affected by hallucinations; one who errs on account of his hallucinations.
Hallucinatory  Partaking of, or tending to produce, hallucination.
Hallux  The first, or preaxial, digit of the hind limb, corresponding to the pollux in the fore limb; the great toe; the hind toe of birds.
Halm  Same as Haulm.
Halma  The long jump, with weights in the hands, -- the most important of the exercises of the Pentathlon.
Halos  of Halo
Halo  A luminous circle, usually prismatically colored, round the sun or moon, and supposed to be caused by the refraction of light through crystals of ice in the atmosphere. Connected with halos there are often white bands, crosses, or arches, resulting from the same atmospheric conditions.
Halo  A circle of light; especially, the bright ring represented in painting as surrounding the heads of saints and other holy persons; a glory; a nimbus.
Halo  An ideal glory investing, or affecting one's perception of, an object.
Halo  A colored circle around a nipple; an areola.
Haloed  of Halo
Haloing  of Halo
Halo  To form, or surround with, a halo; to encircle with, or as with, a halo.
Haloed  Surrounded with a halo; invested with an ideal glory; glorified.
Halogen  An electro-negative element or radical, which, by combination with a metal, forms a haloid salt; especially, chlorine, bromine, and iodine; sometimes, also, fluorine and cyanogen. See Chlorine family, under Chlorine.
Halogenous  Of the nature of a halogen.
Haloid  Resembling salt; -- said of certain binary compounds consisting of a metal united to a negative element or radical, and now chiefly applied to the chlorides, bromides, iodides, and sometimes also to the fluorides and cyanides.
Haloid  A haloid substance.
Halomancy  See Alomancy.
Halometer  An instrument for measuring the forms and angles of salts and crystals; a goniometer.
Halones  Alternating transparent and opaque white rings which are seen outside the blastoderm, on the surface of the developing egg of the hen and other birds.
Halophyte  A plant found growing in salt marshes, or in the sea.
Haloscope  An instrument for exhibition or illustration of the phenomena of halos, parhelia, and the like.
Halotrichite  An iron alum occurring in silky fibrous aggregates of a yellowish white color.
Haloxyline  An explosive mixture, consisting of sawdust, charcoal, niter, and ferrocyanide of potassium, used as a substitute for gunpowder.
Halp  Helped.
Halpace  See Haut pas.
Hals  The neck or throat.
Halse  To embrace about the neck; to salute; to greet.
Halse  To adjure; to beseech; to entreat.
Halsed  of Halse
Halsing  of Halse
Halse  To haul; to hoist.
Halsening  Sounding harshly in the throat; inharmonious; rough.
Halser  See Hawser.
Halt  3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contraction for holdeth.
Halt  A stop in marching or walking, or in any action; arrest of progress.
Halted  of Halt
Halting  of Halt
Halt  To hold one's self from proceeding; to hold up; to cease progress; to stop for a longer or shorter period; to come to a stop; to stand still.
Halt  To stand in doubt whether to proceed, or what to do; to hesitate; to be uncertain.
Halt  To cause to cease marching; to stop; as, the general halted his troops for refreshment.
Halt  Halting or stopping in walking; lame.
Halt  The act of limping; lameness.
Halt  To walk lamely; to limp.
Halt  To have an irregular rhythm; to be defective.
Halter  One who halts or limps; a cripple.
Halter  A strong strap or cord.
Halter  A rope or strap, with or without a headstall, for leading or tying a horse.
Halter  A rope for hanging malefactors; a noose.
Haltered  of Halter
Haltering  of Halter
Halter  To tie by the neck with a rope, strap, or halter; to put a halter on; to subject to a hangman's halter.
Halteres  Balancers; the rudimentary hind wings of Diptera.
Halter-sack  A term of reproach, implying that one is fit to be hanged.
Haltingly  In a halting or limping manner.
Halvans  Impure ore; dirty ore.
Halve  A half.
Halved  of Halve
Halving  of Halve
Halve  To divide into two equal parts; as, to halve an apple; to be or form half of.
Halve  To join, as two pieces of timber, by cutting away each for half its thickness at the joining place, and fitting together.
Halved  Appearing as if one side, or one half, were cut away; dimidiate.
Halves  pl. of Half.
Halwe  A saint.
Hal'yard  A rope or tackle for hoisting or lowering yards, sails, flags, etc.
Halysites  A genus of Silurian fossil corals; the chain corals. See Chain coral, under Chain.
Ham  Home.
Ham  The region back of the knee joint; the popliteal space; the hock.
Ham  The thigh of any animal; especially, the thigh of a hog cured by salting and smoking.
Hamadryads  of Hamadryad
Hamadryades  of Hamadryad
Hamadryad  A tree nymph whose life ended with that of the particular tree, usually an oak, which had been her abode.
Hamadryad  A large venomous East Indian snake (Orhiophagus bungarus), allied to the cobras.
Hamadryas  The sacred baboon of Egypt (Cynocephalus Hamadryas).
Hamamelis  A genus of plants which includes the witch-hazel (Hamamelis Virginica), a preparation of which is used medicinally.
Hamate  Hooked; bent at the end into a hook; hamous.
Hamated  Hooked, or set with hooks; hamate.
Hamatum  See Unciform.
Hamble  To hamstring.
Hamburg  A commercial city of Germany, near the mouth of the Elbe.
Hame  Home.
Hame  One of the two curved pieces of wood or metal, in the harness of a draught horse, to which the traces are fastened. They are fitted upon the collar, or have pads fitting the horse's neck attached to them.
Hamel  Same as Hamele.
Hamesecken  Alt. of Hamesucken
Hamesucken  The felonious seeking and invasion of a person in his dwelling house.
Hamiform  Hook-shaped.
Hamilton  A subdivision of the Devonian system of America; -- so named from Hamilton, Madison Co., New York. It includes the Marcellus, Hamilton, and Genesee epochs or groups. See the Chart of Geology.
Haminura  A large edible river fish (Erythrinus macrodon) of Guiana.
Hamite  A fossil cephalopod of the genus Hamites, related to the ammonites, but having the last whorl bent into a hooklike form.
Hamite  A descendant of Ham, Noah's second son. See Gen. x. 6-20.
Haitic  Pertaining to Ham or his descendants.
Hamlet  A small village; a little cluster of houses in the country.
Hamleted  Confined to a hamlet.
Hammer  An instrument for driving nails, beating metals, and the like, consisting of a head, usually of steel or iron, fixed crosswise to a handle.
Hammer  Something which in firm or action resembles the common hammer
Hammer  That part of a clock which strikes upon the bell to indicate the hour.
Hammer  The padded mallet of a piano, which strikes the wires, to produce the tones.
Hammer  The malleus.
Hammer  That part of a gunlock which strikes the percussion cap, or firing pin; the cock; formerly, however, a piece of steel covering the pan of a flintlock musket and struck by the flint of the cock to ignite the priming.
Hammer  Also, a person of thing that smites or shatters; as, St. Augustine was the hammer of heresies.
Hammered  of Hammer
Hammering  of Hammer
Hammer  To beat with a hammer; to beat with heavy blows; as, to hammer iron.
Hammer  To form or forge with a hammer; to shape by beating.
Hammer  To form in the mind; to shape by hard intellectual labor; -- usually with out.
Hammer  To be busy forming anything; to labor hard as if shaping something with a hammer.
Hammer  To strike repeated blows, literally or figuratively.
Hammerable  Capable of being formed or shaped by a hammer.
Hammer-beam  A member of one description of roof truss, called hammer-beam truss, which is so framed as not to have a tiebeam at the top of the wall. Each principal has two hammer-beams, which occupy the situation, and to some extent serve the purpose, of a tiebeam.
Hammercloth  The cloth which covers a coach box.
Hammer-dressed  Having the surface roughly shaped or faced with the stonecutter's hammer; -- said of building stone.
Hammerer  One who works with a hammer.
Hammer-harden  To harden, as a metal, by hammering it in the cold state.
Hammerhead  A shark of the genus Sphyrna or Zygaena, having the eyes set on projections from the sides of the head, which gives it a hammer shape. The Sphyrna zygaena is found in the North Atlantic. Called also hammer fish, and balance fish.
Hammerhead  A fresh-water fish; the stone-roller.
Hammerhead  An African fruit bat (Hypsignathus monstrosus); -- so called from its large blunt nozzle.
Hammerkop  A bird of the Heron family; the umber.
Hammer-less  Without a visible hammer; -- said of a gun having a cock or striker concealed from sight, and out of the way of an accidental touch.
Hammermen  of Hammerman
Hammerman  A hammerer; a forgeman.
Hammochrysos  A stone with spangles of gold color in it.
Hammock  A swinging couch or bed, usually made of netting or canvas about six feet wide, suspended by clews or cords at the ends.
Hammock  A piece of land thickly wooded, and usually covered with bushes and vines. Used also adjectively; as, hammock land.
Hamose  Alt. of Hamous
Hamous  Having the end hooked or curved.
Hamper  A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing and carrying of articles; as, a hamper of wine; a clothes hamper; an oyster hamper, which contains two bushels.
Hampered  of Hamper
Hampering  of Hamper
Hamper  To put in a hamper.
Hamper  To put a hamper or fetter on; to shackle; to insnare; to inveigle; hence, to impede in motion or progress; to embarrass; to encumber.
Hamper  A shackle; a fetter; anything which impedes.
Hamper  Articles ordinarily indispensable, but in the way at certain times.
Hamshackle  To fasten (an animal) by a rope binding the head to one of the fore legs; as, to hamshackle a horse or cow; hence, to bind or restrain; to curb.
Hamster  A small European rodent (Cricetus frumentarius). It is remarkable for having a pouch on each side of the jaw, under the skin, and for its migrations.
Hamstring  One of the great tendons situated in each side of the ham, or space back of the knee, and connected with the muscles of the back of the thigh.
Hamstrung  of Hamstring
Hamstringing  of Hamstring
Hamstring  To lame or disable by cutting the tendons of the ham or knee; to hough; hence, to cripple; to incapacitate; to disable.
Hamular  Hooked; hooklike; hamate; as, the hamular process of the sphenoid bone.
Hamulate  Furnished with a small hook; hook-shaped.
Hamule  A little hook.
Hamulose  Bearing a small hook at the end.
Hamuli  of Hamulus
Hamulus  A hook, or hooklike process.
Hamulus  A hooked barbicel of a feather.
Han  To have; have.
Hanap  A rich goblet, esp. one used on state occasions.
Hanaper  A kind of basket, usually of wickerwork, and adapted for the packing and carrying of articles; a hamper.
Hance  To raise; to elevate.
Hance  Alt. of Hanch
Hanch  See Hanse.
Hanch  A sudden fall or break, as the fall of the fife rail down to the gangway.
Hand  That part of the fore limb below the forearm or wrist in man and monkeys, and the corresponding part in many other animals; manus; paw. See Manus.
Hand  That which resembles, or to some extent performs the office of, a human hand
Hand  A limb of certain animals, as the foot of a hawk, or any one of the four extremities of a monkey.
Hand  An index or pointer on a dial; as, the hour or minute hand of a clock.
Hand  A measure equal to a hand's breadth, -- four inches; a palm. Chiefly used in measuring the height of horses.
Hand  Side; part; direction, either right or left.
Hand  Power of performance; means of execution; ability; skill; dexterity.
Hand  Actual performance; deed; act; workmanship; agency; hence, manner of performance.
Hand  An agent; a servant, or laborer; a workman, trained or competent for special service or duty; a performer more or less skillful; as, a deck hand; a farm hand; an old hand at speaking.
Hand  Handwriting; style of penmanship; as, a good, bad or running hand. Hence, a signature.
Hand  Personal possession; ownership; hence, control; direction; management; -- usually in the plural.
Hand  Agency in transmission from one person to another; as, to buy at first hand, that is, from the producer, or when new; at second hand, that is, when no longer in the producer's hand, or when not new.
Hand  Rate; price.
Hand  That which is, or may be, held in a hand at once
Hand  The quota of cards received from the dealer.
Hand  A bundle of tobacco leaves tied together.
Hand  The small part of a gunstock near the lock, which is grasped by the hand in taking aim.
Hand  of Hand
Handed  of Hand
Handing  of Hand
Hand  To give, pass, or transmit with the hand; as, he handed them the letter.
Hand  To lead, guide, or assist with the hand; to conduct; as, to hand a lady into a carriage.
Hand  To manage; as, I hand my oar.
Hand  To seize; to lay hands on.
Hand  To pledge by the hand; to handfast.
Hand  To furl; -- said of a sail.
Hand  To cooperate.
Handbarrow  A frame or barrow, without a wheel, carried by hand.
Handbill  A loose, printed sheet, to be distributed by hand.
Handbill  A pruning hook.
Handbook  A book of reference, to be carried in the hand; a manual; a guidebook.
Handbreadth  A space equal to the breadth of the hand; a palm.
Handcart  A cart drawn or pushed by hand.
Handcloth  A handkerchief.
Handcraft  Same as Handicraft.
Handcraftsman  A handicraftsman.
Handcuff  A fastening, consisting of an iron ring around the wrist, usually connected by a chain with one on the other wrist; a manacle; -- usually in the plural.
Handcuffed  of Handcuff
Handcuffing  of Handcuff
Handcuff  To apply handcuffs to; to manacle.
Handed  With hands joined; hand in hand.
Handed  Having a peculiar or characteristic hand.
Hander  One who hands over or transmits; a conveyer in succession.
Handfast  Hold; grasp; custody; power of confining or keeping.
Handfast  Contract; specifically, espousal.
Handfast  Fast by contract; betrothed by joining hands.
Handfasted  of Handfast
Handfasting  of Handfast
Handfast  To pledge; to bind; to betroth by joining hands, in order to cohabitation, before the celebration of marriage.
Handfast  Strong; steadfast.
Handfastly  In a handfast or publicly pledged manner.
Handfish  The frogfish.
Hand  of Handful
Handful  As much as the hand will grasp or contain.
Handful  A hand's breadth; four inches.
Handful  A small quantity.
Hand-hole  A small hole in a boiler for the insertion of the hand in cleaning, etc.
Handicap  An allowance of a certain amount of time or distance in starting, granted in a race to the competitor possessing inferior advantages; or an additional weight or other hindrance imposed upon the one possessing superior advantages, in order to equalize, as much as possible, the chances of success; as, the handicap was five seconds, or ten pounds, and the like.
Handicap  A race, for horses or men, or any contest of agility, strength, or skill, in which there is an allowance of time, distance, weight, or other advantage, to equalize the chances of the competitors.
Handicap  An old game at cards.
Handicapped  of Handicap
Handicapping  of Handicap
Handicap  To encumber with a handicap in any contest; hence, in general, to place at disadvantage; as, the candidate was heavily handicapped.
Handicapper  One who determines the conditions of a handicap.
Handicraft  A trade requiring skill of hand; manual occupation; handcraft.
Handicraft  A man who earns his living by handicraft; a handicraftsman.
Handi-craftsman  A man skilled or employed in handcraft.
Handily  In a handy manner; skillfully; conveniently.
Handiness  The quality or state of being handy.
Handiron  See Andrion.
Handiwork  Work done by the hands; hence, any work done personally.
Handkercher  A handkerchief.
Handkerchief  A piece of cloth, usually square and often fine and elegant, carried for wiping the face or hands.
Handkerchief  A piece of cloth shaped like a handkerchief to be worn about the neck; a neckerchief; a neckcloth.
Handled  of Handle
Handling  of Handle
Handle  To touch; to feel with the hand; to use or hold with the hand.
Handle  To manage in using, as a spade or a musket; to wield; often, to manage skillfully.
Handle  To accustom to the hand; to work upon, or take care of, with the hands.
Handle  To receive and transfer; to have pass through one's hands; hence, to buy and sell; as, a merchant handles a variety of goods, or a large stock.
Handle  To deal with; to make a business of.
Handle  To treat; to use, well or ill.
Handle  To manage; to control; to practice skill upon.
Handle  To use or manage in writing or speaking; to treat, as a theme, an argument, or an objection.
Handle  To use the hands.
Handle  That part of vessels, instruments, etc., which is held in the hand when used or moved, as the haft of a sword, the knob of a door, the bail of a kettle, etc.
Handle  That of which use is made; the instrument for effecting a purpose; a tool.
Handleable  Capable of being handled.
Handless  Without a hand.
Handling  A touching, controlling, managing, using, etc., with the hand or hands, or as with the hands. See Handle, v. t.
Handling  The mode of using the pencil or brush, etc.; style of touch.
Handmade  Manufactured by hand; as, handmade shoes.
Handmaid  Alt. of Handmaiden
Handmaiden  A maid that waits at hand; a female servant or attendant.
Handsaw  A saw used with one hand.
Handsel  A sale, gift, or delivery into the hand of another; especially, a sale, gift, delivery, or using which is the first of a series, and regarded as on omen for the rest; a first installment; an earnest; as the first money received for the sale of goods in the morning, the first money taken at a shop newly opened, the first present sent to a young woman on her wedding day, etc.
Handsel  Price; payment.
Handseled  of Handsel
Handseled  of Handsel
Handseling  of Handsel
Handselling  of Handsel
Handsel  To give a handsel to.
Handsel  To use or do for the first time, esp. so as to make fortunate or unfortunate; to try experimentally.
Handsome  Dexterous; skillful; handy; ready; convenient; -- applied to things as persons.
Handsome  Agreeable to the eye or to correct taste; having a pleasing appearance or expression; attractive; having symmetry and dignity; comely; -- expressing more than pretty, and less than beautiful; as, a handsome man or woman; a handsome garment, house, tree, horse.
Handsome  Suitable or fit in action; marked with propriety and ease; graceful; becoming; appropriate; as, a handsome style, etc.
Handsome  Evincing a becoming generosity or nobleness of character; liberal; generous.
Handsome  Ample; moderately large.
Hadsome  To render handsome.
Handsomely  In a handsome manner.
Handsomely  Carefully; in shipshape style.
Handsomeness  The quality of being handsome.
Handspike  A bar or lever, generally of wood, used in a windlass or capstan, for heaving anchor, and, in modified forms, for various purposes.
Handspring  A somersault made with the assistance of the hands placed upon the ground.
Hand-tight  As tight as can be made by the hand.
Handwheel  Any wheel worked by hand; esp., one the rim of which serves as the handle by which a valve, car brake, or other part is adjusted.
Hand-winged  Having wings that are like hands in the structure and arrangement of their bones; -- said of bats. See Cheiroptera.
Handwriting  The cast or form of writing peculiar to each hand or person; chirography.
Handwriting  That which is written by hand; manuscript.
Handy  Performed by the hand.
Handy  Skillful in using the hand; dexterous; ready; adroit.
Handy  Ready to the hand; near; also, suited to the use of the hand; convenient; valuable for reference or use; as, my tools are handy; a handy volume.
Handy  Easily managed; obedient to the helm; -- said of a vessel.
Handyy-dandy  A child's play, one child guessing in which closed hand the other holds some small object, winning the object if right and forfeiting an equivalent if wrong; hence, forfeit.
Handyfight  A fight with the hands; boxing.
Handygripe  Seizure by, or grasp of, the hand; also, close quarters in fighting.
Handystroke  A blow with the hand.
Hand-work  See Handiwork.
Hanged  of Hang
Hung  of Hang
Hanging  of Hang
Hang  To suspend; to fasten to some elevated point without support from below; -- often used with up or out; as, to hang a coat on a hook; to hang up a sign; to hang out a banner.
Hang  To fasten in a manner which will allow of free motion upon the point or points of suspension; -- said of a pendulum, a swing, a door, gate, etc.
Hang  To fit properly, as at a proper angle (a part of an implement that is swung in using), as a scythe to its snath, or an ax to its helve.
Hang  To put to death by suspending by the neck; -- a form of capital punishment; as, to hang a murderer.
Hang  To cover, decorate, or furnish by hanging pictures trophies, drapery, and the like, or by covering with paper hangings; -- said of a wall, a room, etc.
Hang  To paste, as paper hangings, on the walls of a room.
Hang  To hold or bear in a suspended or inclined manner or position instead of erect; to droop; as, he hung his head in shame.
Hang  To be suspended or fastened to some elevated point without support from below; to dangle; to float; to rest; to remain; to stay.
Hang  To be fastened in such a manner as to allow of free motion on the point or points of suspension.
Hang  To die or be put to death by suspension from the neck.
Hang  To hold for support; to depend; to cling; -- usually with on or upon; as, this question hangs on a single point.
Hang  To be, or be like, a suspended weight.
Hang  To hover; to impend; to appear threateningly; -- usually with over; as, evils hang over the country.
Hang  To lean or incline; to incline downward.
Hang  To slope down; as, hanging grounds.
Hang  To be undetermined or uncertain; to be in suspense; to linger; to be delayed.
Hang  The manner in which one part or thing hangs upon, or is connected with, another; as, the hang of a scythe.
Hang  Connection; arrangement; plan; as, the hang of a discourse.
Hang  A sharp or steep declivity or slope.
Hangbird  The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula); -- so called because its nest is suspended from the limb of a tree. See Baltimore oriole.
Hang-bies  of Hang-by
Hang-by  A dependent; a hanger-on; -- so called in contempt.
Hangdog  A base, degraded person; a sneak; a gallows bird.
Hangdog  Low; sneaking; ashamed.
Hanger  One who hangs, or causes to be hanged; a hangman.
Hanger  That by which a thing is suspended.
Hanger  A strap hung to the girdle, by which a dagger or sword is suspended.
Hanger  A part that suspends a journal box in which shafting runs. See Illust. of Countershaft.
Hanger  A bridle iron.
Hanger  That which hangs or is suspended, as a sword worn at the side; especially, in the 18th century, a short, curved sword.
Hanger  A steep, wooded declivity.
Hangers-on  of Hanger-on
Hanger-on  One who hangs on, or sticks to, a person, place, or service; a dependent; one who adheres to others' society longer than he is wanted.
Hanging  Requiring, deserving, or foreboding death by the halter.
Hanging  Suspended from above; pendent; as, hanging shelves.
Hanging  Adapted for sustaining a hanging object; as, the hanging post of a gate, the post which holds the hinges.
Hanging  The act of suspending anything; the state of being suspended.
Hanging  Death by suspension; execution by a halter.
Hanging  That which is hung as lining or drapery for the walls of a room, as tapestry, paper, etc., or to cover or drape a door or window; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Hangmen  of Hangman
Hangman  One who hangs another; esp., one who makes a business of hanging; a public executioner; -- sometimes used as a term of reproach, without reference to office.
Hangmanship  The office or character of a hangman.
Hangnail  A small piece or silver of skin which hangs loose, near the root of finger nail.
Hangnest  A nest that hangs like a bag or pocket.
Hangnest  A bird which builds such a nest; a hangbird.
Hank  A parcel consisting of two or more skeins of yarn or thread tied together.
Hank  A rope or withe for fastening a gate.
Hank  Hold; influence.
Hank  A ring or eye of rope, wood, or iron, attached to the edge of a sail and running on a stay.
Hank  To fasten with a rope, as a gate.
Hank  To form into hanks.
Hankered  of Hanker
Hankering  of Hanker
Hanker  To long (for) with a keen appetite and uneasiness; to have a vehement desire; -- usually with for or after; as, to hanker after fruit; to hanker after the diversions of the town.
Hanker  To linger in expectation or with desire.
Hankeringly  In a hankering manner.
Hankey-pankey  Professional cant; the chatter of conjurers to divert attention from their tricks; hence, jugglery.
Hanoverian  Of or pertaining to Hanover or its people, or to the House of Hanover in England.
Hanoverian  A native or naturalized inhabitant of Hanover; one of the House of Hanover.
Han  See 2d Hanse.
Hansard  An official report of proceedings in the British Parliament; -- so called from the name of the publishers.
Hansard  A merchant of one of the Hanse towns. See the Note under 2d Hanse.
Hanse  That part of an elliptical or many-centered arch which has the shorter radius and immediately adjoins the impost.
Hanse  An association; a league or confederacy.
Hanseatic  Pertaining to the Hanse towns, or to their confederacy.
Hansel  See Handsel.
Hanselines  A sort of breeches.
Hansom  Alt. of Hansom cab
Hansom  A light, low, two-wheeled covered carriage with the driver's seat elevated behind, the reins being passed over the top.
Han't  A contraction of have not, or has not, used in illiterate speech. In the United States the commoner spelling is hain't.
Hanuman  See Hoonoomaun.
Hap  To clothe; to wrap.
Hap  A cloak or plaid.
Hap  That which happens or comes suddenly or unexpectedly; also, the manner of occurrence or taking place; chance; fortune; accident; casual event; fate; luck; lot.
Hap  To happen; to befall; to chance.
Hap'penny  A half-penny.
Haphazard  Extra hazard; chance; accident; random.
Hapless  Without hap or luck; luckless; unfortunate; unlucky; unhappy; as, hapless youth; hapless maid.
Haplessly  In a hapless, unlucky manner.
Haplomi  An order of freshwater fishes, including the true pikes, cyprinodonts, and blindfishes.
Haplostemonous  Having but one series of stamens, and that equal in number to the proper number of petals; isostemonous.
Haply  By hap, chance, luck, or accident; perhaps; it may be.
Happed  Wrapped; covered; cloaked.
Happened  of Happen
Happening  of Happen
Happen  To come by chance; to come without previous expectation; to fall out.
Happen  To take place; to occur.
Happily  By chance; peradventure; haply.
Happily  By good fortune; fortunately; luckily.
Happily  In a happy manner or state; in happy circumstances; as, he lived happily with his wife.
Happily  With address or dexterity; gracefully; felicitously; in a manner to success; with success.
Happiness  Good luck; good fortune; prosperity.
Happiness  An agreeable feeling or condition of the soul arising from good fortune or propitious happening of any kind; the possession of those circumstances or that state of being which is attended enjoyment; the state of being happy; contentment; joyful satisfaction; felicity; blessedness.
Happiness  Fortuitous elegance; unstudied grace; -- used especially of language.
Happy  Favored by hap, luck, or fortune; lucky; fortunate; successful; prosperous; satisfying desire; as, a happy expedient; a happy effort; a happy venture; a happy omen.
Happy  Experiencing the effect of favorable fortune; having the feeling arising from the consciousness of well-being or of enjoyment; enjoying good of any kind, as peace, tranquillity, comfort; contented; joyous; as, happy hours, happy thoughts.
Happy  Dexterous; ready; apt; felicitous.
Hapuku  A large and valuable food fish (Polyprion prognathus) of New Zealand. It sometimes weighs one hundred pounds or more.
Haquebut  See Hagbut.
Hara-kiri  Suicide, by slashing the abdomen, formerly practiced in Japan, and commanded by the government in the cases of disgraced officials; disembowelment; -- also written, but incorrectly, hari-kari.
Harangue  A speech addressed to a large public assembly; a popular oration; a loud address a multitude; in a bad sense, a noisy or pompous speech; declamation; ranting.
Harangued  of Harangue
Haranguing  of Harangue
Harangue  To make an harangue; to declaim.
Harangue  To address by an harangue.
Harangueful  Full of harangue.
Haranguer  One who harangues, or is fond of haranguing; a declaimer.
Harassed  of Harass
Harassing  of Harass
Harass  To fatigue; to tire with repeated and exhausting efforts; esp., to weary by importunity, teasing, or fretting; to cause to endure excessive burdens or anxieties; -- sometimes followed by out.
Harass  Devastation; waste.
Harass  Worry; harassment.
Harasser  One who harasses.
Harassment  The act of harassing, or state of being harassed; worry; annoyance; anxiety.
Harberous  Harborous.
Harbinger  One who provides lodgings; especially, the officer of the English royal household who formerly preceded the court when traveling, to provide and prepare lodgings.
Harbinger  A forerunner; a precursor; a messenger.
Harbingered  of Harbinger
Harbingering  of Harbinger
Harbinger  To usher in; to be a harbinger of.
Harbor  A station for rest and entertainment; a place of security and comfort; a refuge; a shelter.
Harbor  Specif.: A lodging place; an inn.
Harbor  The mansion of a heavenly body.
Harbor  A portion of a sea, a lake, or other large body of water, either landlocked or artificially protected so as to be a place of safety for vessels in stormy weather; a port or haven.
Harbor  A mixing box materials.
Harbored  of Harbor
Harboring  of Harbor
Harbor  To afford lodging to; to enter as guest; to receive; to give a refuge to; indulge or cherish (a thought or feeling, esp. an ill thought).
Harbor  To lodge, or abide for a time; to take shelter, as in a harbor.
Harborage  Shelter; entertainment.
Harborer  One who, or that which, harbors.
Harborless  Without a harbor; shelterless.
Harbor  An officer charged with the duty of executing the regulations respecting the use of a harbor.
Harborough  Alt. of Harbrough
Harbrough  A shelter.
Harborous  Hospitable.
Hard  Not easily penetrated, cut, or separated into parts; not yielding to pressure; firm; solid; compact; -- applied to material bodies, and opposed to soft; as, hard wood; hard flesh; a hard apple.
Hard  Difficult, mentally or judicially; not easily apprehended, decided, or resolved; as a hard problem.
Hard  Difficult to accomplish; full of obstacles; laborious; fatiguing; arduous; as, a hard task; a disease hard to cure.
Hard  Difficult to resist or control; powerful.
Hard  Difficult to bear or endure; not easy to put up with or consent to; hence, severe; rigorous; oppressive; distressing; unjust; grasping; as, a hard lot; hard times; hard fare; a hard winter; hard conditions or terms.
Hard  Difficult to please or influence; stern; unyielding; obdurate; unsympathetic; unfeeling; cruel; as, a hard master; a hard heart; hard words; a hard character.
Hard  Not easy or agreeable to the taste; stiff; rigid; ungraceful; repelling; as, a hard style.
Hard  Rough; acid; sour, as liquors; as, hard cider.
Hard  Abrupt or explosive in utterance; not aspirated, sibilated, or pronounced with a gradual change of the organs from one position to another; -- said of certain consonants, as c in came, and g in go, as distinguished from the same letters in center, general, etc.
Hard  Wanting softness or smoothness of utterance; harsh; as, a hard tone.
Hard  Rigid in the drawing or distribution of the figures; formal; lacking grace of composition.
Hard  Having disagreeable and abrupt contrasts in the coloring or light and shade.
Hard  With pressure; with urgency; hence, diligently; earnestly.
Hard  With difficulty; as, the vehicle moves hard.
Hard  Uneasily; vexatiously; slowly.
Hard  So as to raise difficulties.
Hard  With tension or strain of the powers; violently; with force; tempestuously; vehemently; vigorously; energetically; as, to press, to blow, to rain hard; hence, rapidly; as, to run hard.
Hard  Close or near.
Hard  To harden; to make hard.
Hard  A ford or passage across a river or swamp.
Hardbake  A sweetmeat of boiled brown sugar or molasses made with almonds, and flavored with orange or lemon juice, etc.
Hardbeam  A tree of the genus Carpinus, of compact, horny texture; hornbeam.
Hardened  of Harden
Hardening  of Harden
Harden  To make hard or harder; to make firm or compact; to indurate; as, to harden clay or iron.
Harden  To accustom by labor or suffering to endure with constancy; to strengthen; to stiffen; to inure; also, to confirm in wickedness or shame; to make unimpressionable.
Harden  To become hard or harder; to acquire solidity, or more compactness; as, mortar hardens by drying.
Harden  To become confirmed or strengthened, in either a good or a bad sense.
Hardened  Made hard, or compact; made unfeeling or callous; made obstinate or obdurate; confirmed in error or vice.
Hardener  One who, or that which, hardens; specif., one who tempers tools.
Hardening  Making hard or harder.
Hardening  That which hardens, as a material used for converting the surface of iron into steel.
Harder  A South African mullet, salted for food.
Harderian  A term applied to a lachrymal gland on the inner side of the orbit of many animals which have a third eyelid, or nictitating membrane. See Nictitating membrane, under Nictitate.
Hard-favored  Hard-featured; ill-looking; as, Vulcan was hard-favored.
Hardfavoredness  Coarseness of features.
Hard-featured  Having coarse, unattractive or stern features.
Hardfern  A species of fern (Lomaria borealis), growing in Europe and Northwestern America.
Hard-fisted  Having hard or strong hands; as, a hard-fisted laborer.
Hard-fisted  Close-fisted; covetous; niggardly.
Hard-fought  contested; as, a hard-fought battle.
Hard  A name given to several different grasses, especially to the Roltbollia incurvata, and to the species of Aegilops, from one of which it is contended that wheat has been derived.
Hardhack  A very astringent shrub (Spiraea tomentosa), common in pastures. The Potentilla fruticosa in also called by this name.
Hard-handed  Having hard hands, as a manual laborer.
Hardhead  Clash or collision of heads in contest.
Hardhead  The menhaden. See Menhaden.
Hardhead  Block's gurnard (Trigla gurnardus) of Europe.
Hardhead  A California salmon; the steelhead.
Hardhead  The gray whale.
Hardhead  A coarse American commercial sponge (Spongia dura).
Hard-headed  Having sound judgment; sagacious; shrewd.
Hard-hearted  Unsympathetic; inexorable; cruel; pitiless.
Harddihead  Hardihood.
Harddihood  Boldness, united with firmness and constancy of mind; bravery; intrepidity; also, audaciousness; impudence.
Hardily  Same as Hardly.
Hardily  Boldly; stoutly; resolutely.
Hardiment  Hardihood; boldness; courage; energetic action.
Hardiness  Capability of endurance.
Hardiness  Hardihood; boldness; firmness; assurance.
Hardiness  Hardship; fatigue.
Hardish  Somewhat hard.
Hard-labored  Wrought with severe labor; elaborate; studied.
Hardly  In a hard or difficult manner; with difficulty.
Hardly  Unwillingly; grudgingly.
Hardly  Scarcely; barely; not guite; not wholly.
Hardly  Severely; harshly; roughly.
Hardly  Confidently; hardily.
Hardly  Certainly; surely; indeed.
Hard-mouthed  Not sensible to the bit; not easily governed; as, a hard-mouthed horse.
Hardness  The quality or state of being hard, literally or figuratively.
Hardness  The cohesion of the particles on the surface of a body, determined by its capacity to scratch another, or be itself scratched;-measured among minerals on a scale of which diamond and talc form the extremes.
Hardness  The peculiar quality exhibited by water which has mineral salts dissolved in it. Such water forms an insoluble compound with soap, and is hence unfit for washing purposes.
Hardock  See Hordock.
Hardpan  The hard substratum. Same as Hard pan, under Hard, a.
Hards  The refuse or coarse part of fiax; tow.
Hard-shell  Unyielding; insensible to argument; uncompromising; strict.
Hardship  That which is hard to hear, as toil, privation, injury, injustice, etc.
Hardspun  Firmly twisted in spinning.
Hard-tack  A name given by soldiers and sailors to a kind of hard biscuit or sea bread.
Hardtail  See Jurel.
Hard-visaged  Of a harsh or stern countenance; hard-featured.
Hardware  Ware made of metal, as cutlery, kitchen utensils, and the like; ironmongery.
Hardwaremen  of Hardwareman
Hardwareman  One who makes, or deals in, hardware.
Hardy  Bold; brave; stout; daring; resolu?e; intrepid.
Hardy  Confident; full of assurance; in a bad sense, morally hardened; shameless.
Hardy  Strong; firm; compact.
Hardy  Inured to fatigue or hardships; strong; capable of endurance; as, a hardy veteran; a hardy mariner.
Hardy  Able to withstand the cold of winter.
Hardy  A blacksmith's fuller or chisel, having a square shank for insertion into a square hole in an anvil, called the hardy hole.
Hare  To excite; to tease, or worry; to harry.
Hare  A rodent of the genus Lepus, having long hind legs, a short tail, and a divided upper lip. It is a timid animal, moves swiftly by leaps, and is remarkable for its fecundity.
Hare  A small constellation situated south of and under the foot of Orion; Lepus.
Harebell  A small, slender, branching plant (Campanula rotundifolia), having blue bell-shaped flowers; also, Scilla nutans, which has similar flowers; -- called also bluebell.
Hare'brained'  Wild; giddy; volatile; heedless.
Harefoot  A long, narrow foot, carried (that is, produced or extending) forward; -- said of dogs.
Harefoot  A tree (Ochroma Laqopus) of the West Indies, having the stamens united somewhat in the form of a hare's foot.
Hare-hearted  Timorous; timid; easily frightened.
Harehound  See Harrier.
ical  Relating to the patriarch Abraham.
ical  Of or pertaining to the Brahmans or to their doctrines and worship.
Iamatology  Materia Medica; that branch of therapeutics which treats of remedies.
Iamb  An iambus or iambic.
Iambic  Consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented; as, an iambic foot.
Iambic  Pertaining to, or composed of, iambics; as, an iambic verse; iambic meter. See Lambus.
Iambic  An iambic foot; an iambus.
Iambic  A verse composed of iambic feet.
Iambic  A satirical poem (such poems having been anciently written in iambic verse); a satire; a lampoon.
Iambical  Iambic.
Iambically  In a iambic manner; after the manner of iambics.
Iambize  To satirize in iambics; to lampoon.
Iambi  of Iambus
Iambuses  of Iambus
Iambus  A foot consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, as in /mans, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented one, as invent; an iambic. See the Couplet under Iambic, n.
Ianthinae  of Ianthina
Ianthinas  of Ianthina
Ianthina  Any gastropod of the genus Ianthina, of which various species are found living in mid ocean; -- called also purple shell, and violet snail.
Iatraliptic  Treating diseases by anointing and friction; as, the iatraliptic method.
Iatric  Alt. of Iatrical
Iatrical  Of or pertaining to medicine, or to medical men.
Iatrochemical  Of or pertaining to iatrochemistry, or to the iatrochemists.
Iatrochemist  A physician who explained or treated diseases upon chemical principles; one who practiced iatrochemistry.
Iatrochemistry  Chemistry applied to, or used in, medicine; -- used especially with reference to the doctrines in the school of physicians in Flanders, in the 17th century, who held that health depends upon the proper chemical relations of the fluids of the body, and who endeavored to explain the conditions of health or disease by chemical principles.
Iatromathematical  Of or pertaining to iatromathematicians or their doctrine.
Iatromathematician  One of a school of physicians in Italy, about the middle of the 17th century, who tried to apply the laws of mechanics and mathematics to the human body, and hence were eager student of anatomy; -- opposed to the iatrochemists.
Iberian  Of or pertaining to Iberia.
Ibexes  of Ibex
Ibices  of Ibex
Ibex  One of several species of wild goats having very large, recurved horns, transversely ridged in front; -- called also steinbok.
Ibidem  In the same place; -- abbreviated ibid. or ib.
Ibis  Any bird of the genus Ibis and several allied genera, of the family Ibidae, inhabiting both the Old World and the New. Numerous species are known. They are large, wading birds, having a long, curved beak, and feed largely on reptiles.
Icarian  Soaring too high for safety, like Icarus; adventurous in flight.
Ice  Water or other fluid frozen or reduced to the solid state by cold; frozen water. It is a white or transparent colorless substance, crystalline, brittle, and viscoidal. Its specific gravity (0.92, that of water at 4 C. being 1.0) being less than that of water, ice floats.
Ice  Concreted sugar.
Ice  Water, cream, custard, etc., sweetened, flavored, and artificially frozen.
Ice  Any substance having the appearance of ice; as, camphor ice.
Iced  of Ice
Icing  of Ice
Ice  To cover with ice; to convert into ice, or into something resembling ice.
Ice  To cover with icing, or frosting made of sugar and milk or white of egg; to frost, as cakes, tarts, etc.
Ice  To chill or cool, as with ice; to freeze.
Iceberg  A large mass of ice, generally floating in the ocean.
Icebird  An Arctic sea bird, as the Arctic fulmar.
Icebound  Totally surrounded with ice, so as to be incapable of advancing; as, an icebound vessel; also, surrounded by or fringed with ice so as to hinder easy access; as, an icebound coast.
Ice-built  Composed of ice.
Ice-built  Loaded with ice.
Iced  Covered with ice; chilled with ice; as, iced water.
Iced  Covered with something resembling ice, as sugar icing; frosted; as, iced cake.
Icefall  A frozen waterfall, or mass of ice resembling a frozen waterfall.
Icelander  A native, or one of the Scandinavian people, of Iceland.
Icelandic  Of or pertaining to Iceland; relating to, or resembling, the Icelanders.
Icelandic  The language of the Icelanders. It is one of the Scandinavian group, and is more nearly allied to the Old Norse than any other language now spoken.
Iceland  A kind of lichen (Cetraria Icelandica) found from the Arctic regions to the North Temperate zone. It furnishes a nutritious jelly and other forms of food, and is used in pulmonary complaints as a demulcent.
Iceland  A transparent variety of calcite, the best of which is obtained in Iceland. It is used for the prisms of the polariscope, because of its strong double refraction. Cf. Calcite.
Icemen  of Iceman
Iceman  A man who is skilled in traveling upon ice, as among glaciers.
Iceman  One who deals in ice; one who retails or delivers ice.
Ice  A plant (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum), sprinkled with pellucid, watery vesicles, which glisten like ice. It is native along the Mediterranean, in the Canaries, and in South Africa. Its juice is said to be demulcent and diuretic; its ashes are used in Spain in making glass.
Icequake  The crash or concussion attending the breaking up of masses of ice, -- often due to contraction from extreme cold.
Ich  I.
Ichneumon  Any carnivorous mammal of the genus Herpestes, and family Viverridae. Numerous species are found in Asia and Africa. The Egyptian species(H. ichneumon), which ranges to Spain and Palestine, is noted for destroying the eggs and young of the crocodile as well as various snakes and lizards, and hence was considered sacred by the ancient Egyptians. The common species of India (H. griseus), known as the mongoose, has similar habits and is often domesticated. It is noted for killing the cobra.
Ichneumon  Any hymenopterous insect of the family Ichneumonidae, of which several thousand species are known, belonging to numerous genera.
Ichneumonidan  Of or pertaining to the Ichneumonidae, or ichneumon flies.
Ichneumonidan  One of the Ichneumonidae.
Ichneumonides  The ichneumon flies.
Ichnite  A fossil footprint; as, the ichnites in the Triassic sandstone.
Ichnographic  Alt. of Ichnographical
Ichnographical  Of or pertaining to ichonography; describing a ground plot.
Ichnography  A horizontal section of a building or other object, showing its true dimensions according to a geometric scale; a ground plan; a map; also, the art of making such plans.
Ichnolite  A fossil footprint; an ichnite.
Ichnolithology  Same as Ichnology.
Ichnological  Of or pertaining to ichnology.
Ichnology  The branch of science which treats of fossil footprints.
Ichnoscopy  The search for the traces of anything.
Ichor  An ethereal fluid that supplied the place of blood in the veins of the gods.
Ichor  A thin, acrid, watery discharge from an ulcer, wound, etc.
Ichorhaemia  Infection of the blood with ichorous or putrid substances.
Ichorous  Of or like ichor; thin; watery; serous; sanious.
Ichthidin  A substance from the egg yolk of osseous fishes.
Ichthin  A nitrogenous substance resembling vitellin, present in the egg yolk of cartilaginous fishes.
Ichthulin  A substance from the yolk of salmon's egg.
Ichthus  In early Christian and eccesiastical art, an emblematic fish, or the Greek word for fish, which combined the initials of the Greek words /, /, / /, /, Jesus, Christ, Son of God, Savior.
Ichthyic  Like, or pertaining to, fishes.
Ichthyocol  Alt. of Ichthyocolla
Ichthyocolla  Fish glue; isinglass; a glue prepared from the sounds of certain fishes.
Ichthyocoprolite  Fossil dung of fishes.
Ichthyodorulite  One of the spiny plates foundon the back and tail of certain skates.
Ichthyography  A treatise on fishes.
Ichthyoid  Alt. of Ichthyoidal
Ichthyoidal  Somewhat like a fish; having some of the characteristics of fishes; -- said of some amphibians.
Ichthyolatry  Worship of fishes, or of fish-shaped idols.
Ichthyolite  A fossil fish, or fragment of a fish.
Ichthyologic  Alt. of Ichthyological
Ichthyological  Of or pertaining to ichthyology.
Ichthyologist  One versed in, or who studies, ichthyology.
Ichthyology  The natural history of fishes; that branch of zoology which relates to fishes, including their structure, classification, and habits.
Ichthyomancy  Divination by the heads or the entrails of fishes.
Ichthyomorpha  The Urodela.
Ichthyomorphic  Alt. of Ichthyomorphous
Ichthyomorphous  Fish-shaped; as, the ichthyomorphic idols of ancient Assyria.
Ichthyophagist  One who eats, or subsists on, fish.
Ichthyophagous  Eating, or subsisting on, fish.
Ichthyohagy  The practice of eating, or living upon, fish.
Ichthyophthalmite  See Apophyllite.
Ichthyophthira  A division of copepod crustaceans, including numerous species parasitic on fishes.
Ichthyopsida  A grand division of the Vertebrata, including the Amphibia and Fishes.
Ichthyopterygia  See Ichthyosauria.
Ichthyopterygium  The typical limb, or lateral fin, of fishes.
Ichthyornis  An extinct genus of toothed birds found in the American Cretaceous formation. It is remarkable for having biconcave vertebrae, and sharp, conical teeth set in sockets. Its wings were well developed. It is the type of the order Odontotormae.
Ichthyosaur  One of the Ichthyosaura.
Ichthyosauria  An extinct order of marine reptiles, including Ichthyosaurus and allied forms; -- called also Ichthyopterygia. They have not been found later than the Cretaceous period.
Ichthyosaurian  Of or pertaining to the Ichthyosauria.
Ichthyosaurian  One of the Ichthyosauria.
Ichthyosauri  of Ichthyosaurus
Ichthyosaurus  An extinct genus of marine reptiles; -- so named from their short, biconcave vertebrae, resembling those of fishes. Several species, varying in length from ten to thirty feet, are known from the Liassic, Oolitic, and Cretaceous formations.
Ichthyosis  A disease in which the skin is thick, rough, and scaly; -- called also fishskin.
Ichthyotomist  One skilled in ichthyotomy.
Ichthyoomy  The anatomy or dissection of fishes.
Ichthys  Same as Ichthus.
Icicle  A pendent, and usually conical, mass of ice, formed by freezing of dripping water; as, the icicles on the eaves of a house.
Icicled  Having icicles attached.
Icily  In an icy manner; coldly.
Iciness  The state or quality of being icy or very cold; frigidity.
Icing  A coating or covering resembling ice, as of sugar and milk or white of egg; frosting.
Ickle  An icicle.
Icon  An image or representation; a portrait or pretended portrait.
Iconical  Pertaining to, or consisting of, images, pictures, or representations of any kind.
Iconism  The formation of a figure, representation, or semblance; a delineation or description.
Iconize  To form an image or likeness of.
Iconoclasm  The doctrine or practice of the iconoclasts; image breaking.
Iconoclast  A breaker or destroyer of images or idols; a determined enemy of idol worship.
Iconoclast  One who exposes or destroys impositions or shams; one who attacks cherished beliefs; a radical.
Iconoclastic  Of or pertaining to the iconoclasts, or to image breaking.
Iconodule  Alt. of Iconodulist
Iconodulist  One who serves images; -- opposed to an iconoclast.
Iconographer  A maker of images.
Iconographic  Of or pertaining to iconography.
Iconographic  Representing by means of pictures or diagrams; as, an icongraphic encyclopaedia.
Iconography  The art or representation by pictures or images; the description or study of portraiture or representation, as of persons; as, the iconography of the ancients.
Iconography  The study of representative art in general.
Iconolater  One who worships images.
Iconolatry  The worship of images as symbols; -- distinguished from idolatry, the worship of images themselves.
Iconology  The discussion or description of portraiture or of representative images. Cf. Iconography.
Iconomachy  Hostility to images as objects of worship.
Iconomical  Opposed to pictures or images as objects of worship.
Iconophilist  A student, or lover of the study, of iconography.
Icosahedral  Having twenty equal sides or faces.
Icosahedron  A solid bounded by twenty sides or faces.
Icosandria  A Linnaean class of plants, having twenty or more stamens inserted in the calyx.
Icosandrian  Alt. of Icosandrous
Icosandrous  Pertaining to the class Icosandria; having twenty or more stamens inserted in the calyx.
Icositetrahedron  A twenty-four-sided solid; a tetragonal trisoctahedron or trapezohedron.
Icteric  A remedy for the jaundice.
Icteric  Alt. of Icterical
Icterical  Pertaining to, or affected with, jaundice.
Icterical  Good against the jaundice.
Icteritious  Alt. of Icteritous
Icteritous  Yellow; of the color of the skin when it is affected by the jaundice.
Icteroid  Of a tint resembling that produced by jaundice; yellow; as, an icteroid tint or complexion.
Icterus  The jaundice.
Ictic  Pertaining to, or caused by, a blow; sudden; abrupt.
Ictus  The stress of voice laid upon accented syllable of a word. Cf. Arsis.
Ictus  A stroke or blow, as in a sunstroke, the sting of an insect, pulsation of an artery, etc.
Icy  Pertaining to, resembling, or abounding in, ice; cold; frosty.
Icy  Characterized by coldness, as of manner, influence, etc.; chilling; frigid; cold.
Icy-pearled  Spangled with ice.
I'd  A contraction from I would or I had.
Idalian  Of or pertaining to Idalium, a mountain city in Cyprus, or to Venus, to whom it was sacred.
Ide  Same as Id.
Ideas  of Idea
Idea  The transcript, image, or picture of a visible object, that is formed by the mind; also, a similar image of any object whatever, whether sensible or spiritual.
Idea  A general notion, or a conception formed by generalization.
Idea  Hence: Any object apprehended, conceived, or thought of, by the mind; a notion, conception, or thought; the real object that is conceived or thought of.
Idea  A belief, option, or doctrine; a characteristic or controlling principle; as, an essential idea; the idea of development.
Idea  A plan or purpose of action; intention; design.
Idea  A rational conception; the complete conception of an object when thought of in all its essential elements or constituents; the necessary metaphysical or constituent attributes and relations, when conceived in the abstract.
Idea  A fiction object or picture created by the imagination; the same when proposed as a pattern to be copied, or a standard to be reached; one of the archetypes or patterns of created things, conceived by the Platonists to have excited objectively from eternity in the mind of the Deity.
Ideal  Existing in idea or thought; conceptional; intellectual; mental; as, ideal knowledge.
Ideal  Reaching an imaginary standard of excellence; fit for a model; faultless; as, ideal beauty.
Ideal  Existing in fancy or imagination only; visionary; unreal.
Ideal  Teaching the doctrine of idealism; as, the ideal theory or philosophy.
Ideal  Imaginary.
Ideal  A mental conception regarded as a standard of perfection; a model of excellence, beauty, etc.
Idealess  Destitute of an idea.
Idealism  The quality or state of being ideal.
Idealism  Conception of the ideal; imagery.
Idealism  The system or theory that denies the existence of material bodies, and teaches that we have no rational grounds to believe in the reality of anything but ideas and their relations.
Idealist  One who idealizes; one who forms picturesque fancies; one given to romantic expectations.
Idealist  One who holds the doctrine of idealism.
Idealistic  Of or pertaining to idealists or their theories.
Idealities  of Ideality
Ideality  The quality or state of being ideal.
Ideality  The capacity to form ideals of beauty or perfection.
Ideality  The conceptive faculty.
Idealization  The act or process of idealizing.
Idealization  The representation of natural objects, scenes, etc., in such a way as to show their most important characteristics; the study of the ideal.
Idealized  of Idealize
Idealizing  of Idealize
Idealize  To make ideal; to give an ideal form or value to; to attribute ideal characteristics and excellences to; as, to idealize real life.
Idealize  To treat in an ideal manner. See Idealization, 2.
Idealize  To form ideals.
Idealizer  An idealist.
Ideally  In an ideal manner; by means of ideals; mentally.
Idealogic  Of or pertaining to an idealogue, or to idealization.
Idealogue  One given to fanciful ideas or theories; a theorist; a spectator.
Ideat  Alt. of Ideate
Ideate  The actual existence supposed to correspond with an idea; the correlate in real existence to the idea as a thought or existence.
Ideate  To form in idea; to fancy.
Ideate  To apprehend in thought so as to fix and hold in the mind; to memorize.
Ideation  The faculty or capacity of the mind for forming ideas; the exercise of this capacity; the act of the mind by which objects of sense are apprehended and retained as objects of thought.
Ideational  Pertaining to, or characterized by, ideation.
Idem  The same; the same as above; -- often abbreviated id.
Identic  Identical.
Identical  The same; the selfsame; the very same; not different; as, the identical person or thing.
Identical  Uttering sameness or the same truth; expressing in the predicate what is given, or obviously implied, in the subject; tautological.
Identically  In an identical manner; with respect to identity.
Identicalness  The quality or state of being identical; sameness.
Identifiable  Capable of being identified.
Identification  The act of identifying, or proving to be the same; also, the state of being identified.
Identified  of Identify
Identifying  of Identify
Identify  To make to be the same; to unite or combine in such a manner as to make one; to treat as being one or having the same purpose or effect; to consider as the same in any relation.
Identify  To establish the identity of; to prove to be the same with something described, claimed, or asserted; as, to identify stolen property.
Identify  To become the same; to coalesce in interest, purpose, use, effect, etc.
Identism  The doctrine taught by Schelling, that matter and mind, and subject and object, are identical in the Absolute; -- called also the system / doctrine of identity.
Identities  of Identity
Identity  The state or quality of being identical, or the same; sameness.
Identity  The condition of being the same with something described or asserted, or of possessing a character claimed; as, to establish the identity of stolen goods.
Identity  An identical equation.
Ideo-  A combining form from the Gr. /, an idea.
Ideogenical  Of or relating to ideology.
Ideogeny  The science which treats of the origin of ideas.
Ideogram  An original, pictorial element of writing; a kind of hieroglyph expressing no sound, but only an idea.
Ideogram  A symbol used for convenience, or for abbreviation; as, 1, 2, 3, +, -, /, $, /, etc.
Ideogram  A phonetic symbol; a letter.
Ideograph  Same as Ideogram.
Ideographic  Alt. of Ideographical
Ideographical  Of or pertaining to an ideogram; representing ideas by symbols, independently of sounds; as, 9 represents not the word "nine," but the idea of the number itself.
Ideographics  The system of writing in ideographic characters; also, anything so written.
Ideography  The representation of ideas independently of sounds, or in an ideographic manner, as sometimes is done in shorthand writing, etc.
Ideological  Of or pertaining to ideology.
Ideologist  One who treats of ideas; one who theorizes or idealizes; one versed in the science of ideas, or who advocates the doctrines of ideology.
Ideology  The science of ideas.
Ideology  A theory of the origin of ideas which derives them exclusively from sensation.
Ideo-motion  An ideo-motor movement.
Ideo-motor  Applied to those actions, or muscular movements, which are automatic expressions of dominant ideas, rather than the result of distinct volitional efforts, as the act of expressing the thoughts in speech, or in writing, while the mind is occupied in the composition of the sentence.
Ides  The fifteenth day of March, May, July, and October, and the thirteenth day of the other months.
Idio-  A combining form from the Greek /, meaning private, personal, peculiar, distinct.
Idioblast  An individual cell, differing greatly from its neighbours in regard to size, structure, or contents.
Idiocrasis  Idiocracy.
Idiocrasies  of Idiocracy
Idiocracy  Peculiarity of constitution; that temperament, or state of constitution, which is peculiar to a person; idiosyncrasy.
Idiocratic  Alt. of Idiocratical
Idiocratical  Peculiar in constitution or temperament; idiosyncratic.
Idiocy  The condition or quality of being an idiot; absence, or marked deficiency, of sense and intelligence.
Idiocyclophanous  Same as Idiophanous.
Idioelectric  Electric by virtue of its own peculiar properties; capable of becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to anelectric.
Idioelectric  An idioelectric substance.
Idiograph  A mark or signature peculiar to an individual; a trade-mark.
Idiographic  Alt. of Idiographical
Idiographical  Of or pertaining to an idiograph.
Idiolatry  Self-worship; excessive self-esteem.
Idiom  The syntactical or structural form peculiar to any language; the genius or cast of a language.
Idiom  An expression conforming or appropriate to the peculiar structural form of a language; in extend use, an expression sanctioned by usage, having a sense peculiar to itself and not agreeing with the logical sense of its structural form; also, the phrase forms peculiar to a particular author.
Idiom  Dialect; a variant form of a language.
Idiomatic  Alt. of Idiomatical
Idiomatical  Of or pertaining to, or conforming to, the mode of expression peculiar to a language; as, an idiomatic meaning; an idiomatic phrase.
Idiomorphic  Idiomorphous.
Idiomorphous  Having a form of its own.
Idiomorphous  Apperaing in distinct crystals; -- said of the mineral constituents of a rock.
Idiomuscular  Applied to a semipermanent contraction of a muscle, produced by a mechanical irritant.
Idiopathetic  Idiopathic.
Idiopathic  Alt. of Idiopathical
Idiopathical  Pertaining to idiopathy; characterizing a disease arising primarily, and not in consequence of some other disease or injury; -- opposed to symptomatic, sympathetic, and traumatic.
Idiopathies  of Idiopathy
Idiopathy  A peculiar, or individual, characteristic or affection.
Idiopathy  A morbid state or condition not preceded or occasioned by any other disease; a primary disease.
Idiophanous  Exhibiting interference figures without the aid of a polariscope, as certain crystals.
Idioplasm  Same as Idioplasma.
Idioplasma  That portion of the cell protoplasm which is the seat of all active changes, and which carries on the function of hereditary transmission; -- distinguished from the other portion, which is termed nutritive plasma. See Hygroplasm.
Idiorepulsive  Repulsive by itself; as, the idiorepulsive power of heat.
Idiosyncrasies  of Idiosyncrasy
Idiosyncrasy  A peculiarity of physical or mental constitution or temperament; a characteristic belonging to, and distinguishing, an individual; characteristic susceptibility; idiocrasy; eccentricity.
Idiosyncratic  Alt. of Idiosyncratical
Idiosyncratical  Of peculiar temper or disposition; belonging to one's peculiar and individual character.
Idiot  A man in private station, as distinguished from one holding a public office.
Idiot  An unlearned, ignorant, or simple person, as distinguished from the educated; an ignoramus.
Idiot  A human being destitute of the ordinary intellectual powers, whether congenital, developmental, or accidental; commonly, a person without understanding from birth; a natural fool; a natural; an innocent.
Idiot  A fool; a simpleton; -- a term of reproach.
Idiotcy  Idiocy.
Idioted  Rendered idiotic; befooled.
Idiothermic  Self-heating; warmed, as the body of animal, by process going on within itself.
Idiotic  Alt. of Idiotical
Idiotical  Common; simple.
Idiotical  Pertaining to, or like, an idiot; characterized by idiocy; foolish; fatuous; as, an idiotic person, speech, laugh, or action.
Idiotically  In a idiotic manner.
Idioticon  A dictionary of a peculiar dialect, or of the words and phrases peculiar to one part of a country; a glossary.
Idiotish  Like an idiot; foolish.
Idiotism  An idiom; a form, mode of expression, or signification, peculiar to a language.
Idiotism  Lack of knowledge or mental capacity; idiocy; foolishness.
Idiotize  To become stupid.
Idiotry  Idiocy.
Idle  Of no account; useless; vain; trifling; unprofitable; thoughtless; silly; barren.
Idle  Not called into active service; not turned to appropriate use; unemployed; as, idle hours.
Idle  Not employed; unoccupied with business; inactive; doing nothing; as, idle workmen.
Idle  Given rest and ease; averse to labor or employment; lazy; slothful; as, an idle fellow.
Idle  Light-headed; foolish.
Idled  of Idle
Idling  of Idle
Idle  To lose or spend time in inaction, or without being employed in business.
Idle  To spend in idleness; to waste; to consume; -- often followed by away; as, to idle away an hour a day.
Idle-headed  Foolish; stupid.
Idle-headed  Delirious; infatuated.
Idleness  The condition or quality of being idle (in the various senses of that word); uselessness; fruitlessness; triviality; inactivity; laziness.
Idle-pated  Idle-headed; stupid.
Idler  One who idles; one who spends his time in inaction; a lazy person; a sluggard.
Idler  One who has constant day duties on board ship, and keeps no regular watch.
Idler  An idle wheel or pulley. See under Idle.
Idless  Alt. of Idlesse
Idlesse  Idleness.
Idly  In a idle manner; ineffectually; vainly; lazily; carelessly; (Obs.) foolishly.
Idocrase  Same as Vesuvianite.
Idol  An image or representation of anything.
Idol  An image of a divinity; a representation or symbol of a deity or any other being or thing, made or used as an object of worship; a similitude of a false god.
Idol  That on which the affections are strongly (often excessively) set; an object of passionate devotion; a person or thing greatly loved or adored.
Idol  A false notion or conception; a fallacy.
Idolastre  An idolater.
Idolater  A worshiper of idols; one who pays divine honors to images, statues, or representations of anything made by hands; one who worships as a deity that which is not God; a pagan.
Idolater  An adorer; a great admirer.
Idolatress  A female worshiper of idols.
Idolatrical  Idolatrous.
Idolatrized  of Idolatrize
Idolatrizing  of Idolatrize
Idolatrize  To worship idols; to pay idolatrous worship.
Idolatrize  To make in idol of; to idolize.
Idolatrous  Of or pertaining to idolatry; partaking of the nature of idolatry; given to idolatry or the worship of false gods; as, idolatrous sacrifices.
Idolatrous  Consisting in, or partaking of, an excessive attachment or reverence; as, an idolatrous veneration for antiquity.
Idolatrously  In a idolatrous manner.
Idolatries  of Idolatry
Idolatry  The worship of idols, images, or anything which is not God; the worship of false gods.
Idolatry  Excessive attachment or veneration for anything; respect or love which borders on adoration.
Idolish  Idolatrous.
Idolism  The worship of idols.
Idolist  A worshiper of idols.
Idolized  of Idolize
Idolizing  of Idolize
Idolize  To make an idol of; to pay idolatrous worship to; as, to idolize the sacred bull in Egypt.
Idolize  To love to excess; to love or reverence to adoration; as, to idolize gold, children, a hero.
Idolize  To practice idolatry.
Idolizer  One who idolizes or loves to the point of reverence; an idolater.
Idoloclast  A breaker of idols; an iconoclast.
Idolographical  Descriptive of idols.
Idolous  Idolatrous.
Idoneous  Appropriate; suitable; proper; fit; adequate.
Idorgan  A morphological unit, consisting of two or more plastids, which does not possess the positive character of the person or stock, in distinction from the physiological organ or biorgan. See Morphon.
Idrialine  Alt. of Idrialite
Idrialite  A bituminous substance obtained from the mercury mines of Idria, where it occurs mixed with cinnabar.
Idumean  Of or pertaining to ancient Idumea, or Edom, in Western Asia.
Idumean  An inhabitant of Idumea, an Edomite.
Idyl  A short poem; properly, a short pastoral poem; as, the idyls of Theocritus; also, any poem, especially a narrative or descriptive poem, written in an eleveted and highly finished style; also, by extension, any artless and easily flowing description, either in poetry or prose, of simple, rustic life, of pastoral scenes, and the like.
Idyllic  Of or belonging to idyls.
Ifere  Together.
Igasuric  Pertaining to, or obtained from, nux vomica or St. Ignatius's bean; as, igasuric acid.
Igasurine  An alkaloid found in nux vomica, and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
Igloo  An Eskimo snow house.
Igloo  A cavity, or excavation, made in the snow by a seal, over its breathing hole in the ice.
Ignatius  See Saint Ignatius's bean, under Saint.
Igneous  Pertaining to, having the nature of, fire; containing fire; resembling fire; as, an igneous appearance.
Igneous  Resulting from, or produced by, the action of fire; as, lavas and basalt are igneous rocks.
Ignescent  Emitting sparks of fire when struck with steel; scintillating; as, ignescent stones.
Ignicolist  A worshiper of fire.
Igniferous  Producing fire.
Ignifluous  Flowing with fire.
Ignified  of Ignify
Ignifying  of Ignify
Ignify  To form into fire.
Ignigenous  Produced by the action of fire, as lava.
Ignipotence  Power over fire.
Ignipotent  Presiding over fire; also, fiery.
Ignes  of Ignis fatuus
Ignis  A phosphorescent light that appears, in the night, over marshy ground, supposed to be occasioned by the decomposition of animal or vegetable substances, or by some inflammable gas; -- popularly called also Will-with-the-wisp, or Will-o'-the-wisp, and Jack-with-a-lantern, or Jack-o'-lantern.
Ignis  Fig.: A misleading influence; a decoy.
Ignited  of Ignite
Igniting  of Ignite
Ignite  To kindle or set on fire; as, to ignite paper or wood.
Ignite  To subject to the action of intense heat; to heat strongly; -- often said of incombustible or infusible substances; as, to ignite iron or platinum.
Ignite  To take fire; to begin to burn.
Ignitible  Capable of being ignited.
Ignition  The act of igniting, kindling, or setting on fire.
Ignition  The state of being ignited or kindled.
Ignitor  One who, or that which, produces ignition; especially, a contrivance for igniting the powder in a torpedo or the like.
Ignivomous  Vomiting fire.
Ignobility  Ignobleness.
Ignoble  Of low birth or family; not noble; not illustrious; plebeian; common; humble.
Ignoble  Not honorable, elevated, or generous; base.
Ignoble  Not a true or noble falcon; -- said of certain hawks, as the goshawk.
Ignoble  To make ignoble.
Ignobleness  State or quality of being ignoble.
Ignobly  In an ignoble manner; basely.
Ignominious  Marked with ignominy; in curring public disgrace; dishonorable; shameful.
Ignominious  Deserving ignominy; despicable.
Ignominious  Humiliating; degrading; as, an ignominious judgment or sentence.
Ignominiously  In an ignominious manner; disgracefully; shamefully; ingloriously.
Ignominies  of Ignominy
Ignominy  Public disgrace or dishonor; reproach; infamy.
Ignominy  An act deserving disgrace; an infamous act.
Ignomy  Ignominy.
Ignoramus  We are ignorant; we ignore; -- being the word formerly written on a bill of indictment by a grand jury when there was not sufficient evidence to warrant them in finding it a true bill. The phrase now used is, "No bill," "No true bill," or "Not found," though in some jurisdictions "Ignored" is still used.
Ignoramuses  of Ignoramus
Ignoramus  A stupid, ignorant person; a vain pretender to knowledge; a dunce.
Ignorance  The condition of being ignorant; the want of knowledge in general, or in relation to a particular subject; the state of being uneducated or uninformed.
Ignorance  A willful neglect or refusal to acquire knowledge which one may acquire and it is his duty to have.
Ignorant  Destitute of knowledge; uninstructed or uninformed; untaught; unenlightened.
Ignorant  Unacquainted with; unconscious or unaware; -- used with of.
Ignorant  Unknown; undiscovered.
Ignorant  Resulting from ignorance; foolish; silly.
Ignorant  A person untaught or uninformed; one unlettered or unskilled; an ignoramous.
Ignorantism  The spirit of those who extol the advantage to ignorance; obscuriantism.
Ignorantist  One opposed to the diffusion of knowledge; an obscuriantist.
Ignorantly  In a ignorant manner; without knowledge; inadvertently.
Ignored  of Ignore
Ignoring  of Ignore
Ignore  To be ignorant of or not acquainted with.
Ignore  To throw out or reject as false or ungrounded; -- said of a bill rejected by a grand jury for want of evidence. See Ignoramus.
Ignore  Hence: To refuse to take notice of; to shut the eyes to; not to recognize; to disregard willfully and causelessly; as, to ignore certain facts; to ignore the presence of an objectionable person.
Ignoscible  Pardonable.
Ignote  Unknown.
Ignote  One who is unknown.
Iguana  Any species of the genus Iguana, a genus of large American lizards of the family Iguanidae. They are arboreal in their habits, usually green in color, and feed chiefly upon fruits.
Iguanian  Resembling, or pertaining to, the iguana.
Iguanid  Same as Iguanoid.
Iguanodon  A genus of gigantic herbivorous dinosaurs having a birdlike pelvis and large hind legs with three-toed feet capable of supporting the entire body. Its teeth resemble those of the iguana, whence its name. Several species are known, mostly from the Wealden of England and Europe. See Illustration in Appendix.
Iguanodont  Like or pertaining to the genus Iguanodon.
Iguanoid  Pertaining to the Iguanidae.
Ihlang-ihlang  A rich, powerful, perfume, obtained from the volatile oil of the flowers of Canada odorata, an East Indian tree.
Ihram  The peculiar dress worn by pilgrims to Mecca.
Il-  A form of the prefix in-, not, and in-, among. See In-.
Ile  Ear of corn.
Ile  An aisle.
Ile  An isle.
Ileac  Pertaining to the ileum.
Ileac  See Iliac, 1.
Ileocaecal  Pertaining to the ileum and caecum.
Ileocolic  Pertaining to the ileum and colon; as, the ileocolic, or ileocaecal, valve, a valve where the ileum opens into the large intestine.
Ileum  The last, and usually the longest, division of the small intestine; the part between the jejunum and large intestine.
Ileum  See Ilium.
Ileus  A morbid condition due to intestinal obstruction. It is characterized by complete constipation, with griping pains in the abdomen, which is greatly distended, and in the later stages by vomiting of fecal matter. Called also ileac, / iliac, passion.
Ilex  The holm oak (Quercus Ilex).
Ilex  A genus of evergreen trees and shrubs, including the common holly.
Iliac  Pertaining to ancient Ilium, or Troy.
Iliac  Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ilium, or dorsal bone of the pelvis; as, the iliac artery.
Iliac  See Ileac, 1.
Iliacal  Iliac.
Ilial  Pertaining to the ilium; iliac.
Iliche  Alike.
Ilicic  Pertaining to, or derived from, the holly (Ilex), and allied plants; as, ilicic acid.
Ilicin  The bitter principle of the holly.
Ilio-  A combining form used in anatomy to denote connection with, or relation to, the ilium; as, ilio-femoral, ilio-lumbar, ilio-psoas, etc.
Iliofemoral  Pertaining to the ilium and femur; as, iliofemoral ligaments.
Iliolumbar  Pertaining to the iliac and lumbar regions; as, the iliolumbar artery.
Iliopsoas  The great flexor muscle of the hip joint, divisible into two parts, the iliac and great psoas, -- often regarded as distinct muscles.
Ilium  The dorsal one of the three principal bones comprising either lateral half of the pelvis; the dorsal or upper part of the hip bone. See Innominate bone, under Innominate.
Ilixanthin  A yellow dye obtained from the leaves of the holly.
Ilk  Same; each; every.
Ilke  Same.
Ilkon  Alt. of Ilkoon
Ilkoon  Each one; every one.
Ill  Contrary to good, in a physical sense; contrary or opposed to advantage, happiness, etc.; bad; evil; unfortunate; disagreeable; unfavorable.
Ill  Contrary to good, in a moral sense; evil; wicked; wrong; iniquitious; naughtly; bad; improper.
Ill  Sick; indisposed; unwell; diseased; disordered; as, ill of a fever.
Ill  Not according with rule, fitness, or propriety; incorrect; rude; unpolished; inelegant.
Ill  Whatever annoys or impairs happiness, or prevents success; evil of any kind; misfortune; calamity; disease; pain; as, the ills of humanity.
Ill  Whatever is contrary to good, in a moral sense; wickedness; depravity; iniquity; wrong; evil.
Ill  In a ill manner; badly; weakly.
Illabile  Incapable of falling or erring; infalliable.
Illacerable  Not lacerable; incapable of being torn or rent.
Illacrymable  Incapable of weeping.
Illapsable  Incapable of slipping, or of error.
Illapsed  of Illapse
Illapsing  of Illapse
Illapse  To fall or glide; to pass; -- usually followed by into.
Illapse  A gliding in; an immisson or entrance of one thing into another; also, a sudden descent or attack.
Illaqueable  Capable of being insnared or entrapped.
Illaqueated  of Illaqueate
Illaqueating  of Illaqueate
Illaqueate  To insnare; to entrap; to entangle; to catch.
Illaqueation  The act of catching or insnaring.
Illaqueation  A snare; a trap.
Illation  The act or process of inferring from premises or reasons; perception of the connection between ideas; that which is inferred; inference; deduction; conclusion.
Illative  Relating to, dependent on, or denoting, illation; inferential; conclusive; as, an illative consequence or proposition; an illative word, as then, therefore, etc.
Illative  An illative particle, as for, because.
Illatively  By inference; as an illative; in an illative manner.
Illaudable  Not laudable; not praise-worthy; worthy of censure or disapprobation.
Ill-boding  Boding evil; inauspicious; ill-omened.
Ill-bred  Badly educated or brought up; impolite; incivil; rude. See Note under Ill, adv.
Illecebration  Allurement.
Illecebrous  Alluring; attractive; enticing.
Illegal  Not according to, or authorized by, law; specif., contrary to, or in violation of, human law; unlawful; illicit; hence, immoral; as, an illegal act; illegal trade; illegal love.
Illegalities  of Illegality
Illegality  The quality or condition of being illegal; unlawfulness; as, the illegality of trespass or of false imprisonment; also, an illegal act.
Illegalized  of Illegalize
Illegalizing  of Illegalize
Illegalize  To make or declare illegal or unlawful.
Illegally  In a illegal manner; unlawfully.
Illegalness  Illegality, unlawfulness.
Illegibility  The state or quality of being illegible.
Illegible  Incapable of being read; not legible; as, illegible handwriting; an illegible inscription.
Illegitimacy  The state of being illegitimate.
Illegitimate  Not according to law; not regular or authorized; unlawful; improper.
Illegitimate  Unlawfully begotten; born out of wedlock; bastard; as, an illegitimate child.
Illegitimate  Not legitimately deduced or inferred; illogical; as, an illegitimate inference.
Illegitimate  Not authorized by good usage; not genuine; spurious; as, an illegitimate word.
Illegitimated  of Illegitimate
Illegitimating  of Illegitimate
Illegitimate  To render illegitimate; to declare or prove to be born out of wedlock; to bastardize; to illegitimatize.
Illegitimately  In a illegitimate manner; unlawfully.
Illegitimation  The act of illegitimating; bastardizing.
Illegitimation  The state of being illegitimate; illegitimacy.
Illegitimatize  To render illegitimate; to bastardize.
Illesive  Not injurious; harmless.
Illeviable  Not leviable; incapable of being imposed, or collected.
Ill-favored  Wanting beauty or attractiveness; deformed; ugly; ill-looking.
Illiberal  Not liberal; not free or generous; close; niggardly; mean; sordid.
Illiberal  Indicating a lack of breeding, culture, and the like; ignoble; rude; narrow-minded; disingenuous.
Illiberal  Not well authorized or elegant; as, illiberal words in Latin.
Illiberalism  Illiberality.
Illiberality  The state or quality of being illiberal; narrowness of mind; meanness; niggardliness.
Illiberalized  of Illiberalize
Illiberalizing  of Illiberalize
Illiberalize  To make illiberal.
Illiberally  In a illiberal manner, ungenerously; uncharitably; parsimoniously.
Illiberalness  The state of being illiberal; illiberality.
Illicit  Not permitted or allowed; prohibited; unlawful; as, illicit trade; illicit intercourse; illicit pleasure.
Illicitous  Illicit.
Illicium  A genus of Asiatic and American magnoliaceous trees, having star-shaped fruit; star anise. The fruit of Illicium anisatum is used as a spice in India, and its oil is largely used in Europe for flavoring cordials, being almost identical with true oil of anise.
Illighten  To enlighten.
Illimitable  Incapable of being limited or bounded; immeasurable; limitless; boundless; as, illimitable space.
Illimitation  State of being illimitable; want of, or freedom from, limitation.
Illimited  Not limited; interminable.
Illinition  A smearing or rubbing in or on; also, that which is smeared or rubbed on, as ointment or liniment.
Illinition  A thin crust of some extraneous substance formed on minerals.
Illinois  A tribe of North American Indians, which formerly occupied the region between the Wabash and Mississippi rivers.
Illiquation  The melting or dissolving of one thing into another.
Illish  Somewhat ill.
Illision  The act of dashing or striking against.
Illiteracies  of Illiteracy
Illiteracy  The state of being illiterate, or uneducated; want of learning, or knowledge; ignorance; specifically, inability to read and write; as, the illiteracy shown by the last census.
Illiteracy  An instance of ignorance; a literary blunder.
Illiteral  Not literal.
Illiterate  Ignorant of letters or books; unlettered; uninstructed; uneducated; as, an illiterate man, or people.
Illiterature  Want of learning; illiteracy.
Ill-judged  Not well judged; unwise.
Ill-lived  Leading a wicked life.
Ill-looking  Having a bad look; threatening; ugly. See Note under Ill, adv.
Ill-mannered  Impolite; rude.
Ill-minded  Ill-disposed.
Ill-natured  Of habitual bad temper; peevish; fractious; cross; crabbed; surly; as, an ill-natured person.
Ill-natured  Dictated by, or indicating, ill nature; spiteful.
Ill-natured  Intractable; not yielding to culture.
Illness  The condition of being ill, evil, or bad; badness; unfavorableness.
Illness  Disease; indisposition; malady; disorder of health; sickness; as, a short or a severe illness.
Illness  Wrong moral conduct; wickedness.
Ill-nurtured  Ill-bred.
Illocality  Want of locality or place.
Illogical  Ignorant or negligent of the rules of logic or correct reasoning; as, an illogical disputant; contrary of the rules of logic or sound reasoning; as, an illogical inference.
Ill-omened  Having unlucky omens; inauspicious. See Note under Ill, adv.
Ill-starred  Fated to be unfortunate; unlucky; as, an ill-starred man or day.
Ill-tempered  Of bad temper; morose; crabbed; sour; peevish; fretful; quarrelsome.
Ill-tempered  Unhealthy; ill-conditioned.
Ill-timed  Done, attempted, or said, at an unsuitable or unpropitious time.
Illtreat  To treat cruelly or improperly; to ill use; to maltreat.
Illuded  of Illude
Illuding  of Illude
Illude  To play upon by artifice; to deceive; to mock; to excite and disappoint the hopes of.
Illumed  of Illume
Illuming  of Illume
Illume  To throw or spread light upon; to make light or bright; to illuminate; to illumine.
Illuminable  Capable of being illuminated.
Illuminant  That which illuminates or affords light; as, gas and petroleum are illuminants.
Illuminary  Illuminative.
Illuminated  of Illuminate
Illuminating  of Illuminate
Illuminate  To make light; to throw light on; to supply with light, literally or figuratively; to brighten.
Illuminate  To light up; to decorate with artificial lights, as a building or city, in token of rejoicing or respect.
Illuminate  To adorn, as a book or page with borders, initial letters, or miniature pictures in colors and gold, as was done in manuscripts of the Middle Ages.
Illuminate  To make plain or clear; to dispel the obscurity to by knowledge or reason; to explain; to elucidate; as, to illuminate a text, a problem, or a duty.
Illuminate  To light up in token or rejoicing.
Illuminate  Enlightened.
Illuminate  One who enlightened; esp., a pretender to extraordinary light and knowledge.
Illuminati  Literally, those who are enlightened
Illuminati  Persons in the early church who had received baptism; in which ceremony a lighted taper was given them, as a symbol of the spiritual illumination they has received by that sacrament.
Illuminati  Members of a sect which sprung up in Spain about the year 1575. Their principal doctrine was, that, by means of prayer, they had attained to so perfect a state as to have no need of ordinances, sacraments, good works, etc.; -- called also Alumbrados, Perfectibilists, etc.
Illuminati  Members of certain associations in Modern Europe, who combined to promote social reforms, by which they expected to raise men and society to perfection, esp. of one originated in 1776 by Adam Weishaupt, professor of canon law at Ingolstadt, which spread rapidly for a time, but ceased after a few years.
Illuminati  An obscure sect of French Familists;
Illuminati  The Hesychasts, Mystics, and Quietists;
Illuminati  The Rosicrucians.
Illuminati  Any persons who profess special spiritual or intellectual enlightenment.
Illuminating  Giving or producing light; used for illumination.
Illumination  The act of illuminating, or supplying with light; the state of being illuminated.
Illumination  Festive decoration of houses or buildings with lights.
Illumination  Adornment of books and manuscripts with colored illustrations. See Illuminate, v. t., 3.
Illumination  That which is illuminated, as a house; also, an ornamented book or manuscript.
Illumination  That which illuminates or gives light; brightness; splendor; especially, intellectual light or knowledge.
Illumination  The special communication of knowledge to the mind by God; inspiration.
Illuminatism  Illuminism.
Illuminative  Tending to illuminate or illustrate; throwing light; illustrative.
Illuminator  One whose occupation is to adorn books, especially manuscripts, with miniatures, borders, etc. See Illuminate, v. t., 3.
Illuminator  A condenser or reflector of light in optical apparatus; also, an illuminant.
Illumine  To illuminate; to light up; to adorn.
Illuminee  One of the Illuminati.
Illuminer  One who, or that which, illuminates.
Illuminism  The principles of the Illuminati.
Illuministic  Of or pertaining to illuminism, or the Illuminati.
Illuminized  of Illuminize
Illuminizing  of Illuminize
Illuminize  To initiate the doctrines or principles of the Illuminati.
Illuminous  Bright; clear.
Illure  To deceive; to entice; to lure.
Ill-used  Misapplied; treated badly.
Illusion  An unreal image presented to the bodily or mental vision; a deceptive appearance; a false show; mockery; hallucination.
Illusion  Hence: Anything agreeably fascinating and charning; enchantment; witchery; glamour.
Illusion  A sensation originated by some external object, but so modified as in any way to lead to an erroneous perception; as when the rolling of a wagon is mistaken for thunder.
Illusion  A plain, delicate lace, usually of silk, used for veils, scarfs, dresses, etc.
Illusionable  Liable to illusion.
Illusionist  One given to illusion; a visionary dreamer.
Illusive  Deceiving by false show; deceitful; deceptive; false; illusory; unreal.
Illusively  In a illusive manner; falsely.
Illusiveness  The quality of being illusive; deceptiveness; false show.
Illusory  Deceiving, or tending of deceive; fallacious; illusive; as, illusory promises or hopes.
Illustrable  Capable of illustration.
Illustrated  of Illustrate
Illustrating  of Illustrate
Illustrate  To make clear, bright, or luminous.
Illustrate  To set in a clear light; to exhibit distinctly or conspicuously.
Illustrate  To make clear, intelligible, or apprehensible; to elucidate, explain, or exemplify, as by means of figures, comparisons, and examples.
Illustrate  To adorn with pictures, as a book or a subject; to elucidate with pictures, as a history or a romance.
Illustrate  To give renown or honor to; to make illustrious; to glorify.
Illustrate  Illustrated; distinguished; illustrious.
Illustration  The act of illustrating; the act of making clear and distinct; education; also, the state of being illustrated, or of being made clear and distinct.
Illustration  That which illustrates; a comparison or example intended to make clear or apprehensible, or to remove obscurity.
Illustration  A picture designed to decorate a volume or elucidate a literary work.
Illustrative  Tending or designed to illustrate, exemplify, or elucidate.
Illustrative  Making illustrious.
Illustratively  By way of illustration or elucidation.
Illustrator  One who illustrates.
Illustratory  Serving to illustrate.
Illustrious  Possessing luster or brightness; brilliant; luminous; splendid.
Illustrious  Characterized by greatness, nobleness, etc.; eminent; conspicuous; distinguished.
Illustrious  Conferring luster or honor; renowned; as, illustrious deeds or titles.
Illustriously  In a illustrious manner; conspicuously; eminently; famously.
Illustriousness  The state or quality of being eminent; greatness; grandeur; glory; fame.
Illustrous  Without luster.
Illutation  The act or operation of smearing the body with mud, especially with the sediment from mineral springs; a mud bath.
Illuxurious  Not luxurious.
Ill-will  See under Ill, a.
Ill-wisher  One who wishes ill to another; an enemy.
Ilmenite  Titanic iron. See Menaccanite.
Ilmenium  A supposed element claimed to have been discovered by R.Harmann.
Ilvaite  A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals and columnar masses.
I'm  A contraction of I am.
Im-  A form of the prefix in- not, and in- in. See In-. Im- also occurs in composition with some words not of Latin origin; as, imbank, imbitter.
Image  An imitation, representation, or similitude of any person, thing, or act, sculptured, drawn, painted, or otherwise made perceptible to the sight; a visible presentation; a copy; a likeness; an effigy; a picture; a semblance.
Image  Hence: The likeness of anything to which worship is paid; an idol.
Image  Show; appearance; cast.
Image  A representation of anything to the mind; a picture drawn by the fancy; a conception; an idea.
Image  A picture, example, or illustration, often taken from sensible objects, and used to illustrate a subject; usually, an extended metaphor.
Image  The figure or picture of any object formed at the focus of a lens or mirror, by rays of light from the several points of the object symmetrically refracted or reflected to corresponding points in such focus; this may be received on a screen, a photographic plate, or the retina of the eye, and viewed directly by the eye, or with an eyeglass, as in the telescope and microscope; the likeness of an object formed by reflection; as, to see one's image in a mirror.
Imaged  of Image
Imaging  of Image
Image  To represent or form an image of; as, the still lake imaged the shore; the mirror imaged her figure.
Image  To represent to the mental vision; to form a likeness of by the fancy or recollection; to imagine.
Imageable  That may be imaged.
Imageless  Having no image.
Imager  One who images or forms likenesses; a sculptor.
Imagery  The work of one who makes images or visible representation of objects; imitation work; images in general, or in mass.
Imagery  Fig.: Unreal show; imitation; appearance.
Imagery  The work of the imagination or fancy; false ideas; imaginary phantasms.
Imagery  Rhetorical decoration in writing or speaking; vivid descriptions presenting or suggesting images of sensible objects; figures in discourse.
Imaginability  Capacity for imagination.
Imaginable  Capable of being imagined; conceivable.
Imaginal  Characterized by imagination; imaginative; also, given to the use or rhetorical figures or imagins.
Imaginal  Of or pertaining to an imago.
Imaginant  Imagining; conceiving.
Imaginant  An imaginer.
Imaginarily  In a imaginary manner; in imagination.
Imaginariness  The state or quality of being imaginary; unreality.
Imaginary  Existing only in imagination or fancy; not real; fancied; visionary; ideal.
Imaginary  An imaginary expression or quantity.
Imaginate  Imaginative.
Imagination  The imagine-making power of the mind; the power to create or reproduce ideally an object of sense previously perceived; the power to call up mental imagines.
Imagination  The representative power; the power to reconstruct or recombine the materials furnished by direct apprehension; the complex faculty usually termed the plastic or creative power; the fancy.
Imagination  The power to recombine the materials furnished by experience or memory, for the accomplishment of an elevated purpose; the power of conceiving and expressing the ideal.
Imagination  A mental image formed by the action of the imagination as a faculty; a conception; a notion.
Imaginational  Pertaining to, involving, or caused by, imagination.
Imaginationalism  Idealism.
Imaginative  Proceeding from, and characterized by, the imagination, generally in the highest sense of the word.
Imaginative  Given to imagining; full of images, fancies, etc.; having a quick imagination; conceptive; creative.
Imaginative  Unreasonably suspicious; jealous.
Imagined  of Imagine
Imagining  of Imagine
Imagine  To form in the mind a notion or idea of; to form a mental image of; to conceive; to produce by the imagination.
Imagine  To contrive in purpose; to scheme; to devise; to compass; to purpose. See Compass, v. t., 5.
Imagine  To represent to one's self; to think; to believe.
Imagine  To form images or conceptions; to conceive; to devise.
Imagine  To think; to suppose.
Imaginer  One who forms ideas or conceptions; one who contrives.
Imaginous  Imaginative.
Imagoes  of Imago
Imago  An image.
Imago  The final adult, and usually winged, state of an insect. See Illust. of Ant-lion, and Army worm.
Imam  Alt. of Imaum
Iman  Alt. of Imaum
Imaum  Among the Mohammedans, a minister or priest who performs the regular service of the mosque.
Imaum  A Mohammedan prince who, as a successor of Mohammed, unites in his person supreme spiritual and temporal power.
Imaret  A lodging house for Mohammedan pilgrims.
Imbalm  See Embalm.
Imban  To put under a ban.
Imband  To form into a band or bands.
Imbanked  of Imbank
Imbanking  of Imbank
Imbank  To inclose or defend with a bank or banks. See Embank.
Imbankment  The act of surrounding with a bank; a bank or mound raised for defense, a roadway, etc.; an embankment. See Embankment.
Imbannered  Having banners.
Imbar  To bar in; to secure.
Imbargo  See Embargo.
Imbark  See Embark.
Imbarn  To store in a barn.
Imbase  See Embase.
Imbase  To diminish in value.
Imbastardize  To bastardize; to debase.
Imbathe  To bathe; to wash freely; to immerce.
Imbay  See Embay.
Imbecile  Destitute of strength, whether of body or mind; feeble; impotent; esp., mentally wea; feeble-minded; as, hospitals for the imbecile and insane.
Imbecile  One destitute of strength; esp., one of feeble mind.
Imbecile  To weaken; to make imbecile; as, to imbecile men's courage.
Imbecilitate  To weaken, as to the body or the mind; to enfeeble.
Imbecilities  of Imbecility
Imbecility  The quality of being imbecile; weakness; feebleness, esp. of mind.
Imbedded  of Imbed
Imbedding  of Imbed
Imbed  To sink or lay, as in a bed; to deposit in a partly inclosing mass, as of clay or mortar; to cover, as with earth, sand, etc.
Imbellic  Not warlike or martial.
Imbenching  A raised work like a bench.
Imber-goose  The loon. See Ember-goose.
Imbezzle  See Embezzle.
Imbibed  of Imbibe
Imbibing  of Imbibe
Imbibe  To drink in; to absorb; to suck or take in; to receive as by drinking; as, a person imbibes drink, or a sponge imbibes moisture.
Imbibe  To receive or absorb into the mind and retain; as, to imbibe principles; to imbibe errors.
Imbibe  To saturate; to imbue.
Imbiber  One who, or that which, imbibes.
Imbibition  The act or process of imbibing, or absorbing; as, the post-mortem imbibition of poisons.
Imbittered  of Imbitter
Imbittering  of Imbitter
Imbitter  To make bitter; hence, to make distressing or more distressing; to make sad, morose, sour, or malignant.
Imbitterer  One who, or that which, imbitters.
Imbitterment  The act of imbittering; bitter feeling; embitterment.
Imblaze  See Emblaze.
Imblazon  See Emblazon.
Imbody  To become corporeal; to assume the qualities of a material body. See Embody.
Imboil  See Emboil.
Imbolden  See Embolden.
Imbonity  Want of goodness.
Imbordered  of Imborder
Imbordering  of Imborder
Imborder  To furnish or inclose with a border; to form a border of.
Imbosked  of Imbosk
Imbosking  of Imbosk
Imbosk  To conceal, as in bushes; to hide.
Imbosk  To be concealed.
Imbosomed  of Imbosom
Imbosoming  of Imbosom
Imbosom  To hold in the bosom; to cherish in the heart or affection; to embosom.
Imbosom  To inclose or place in the midst of; to surround or shelter; as, a house imbosomed in a grove.
Imboss  See Emboss.
Imbosture  Embossed or raised work.
Imbound  To inclose in limits; to shut in.
Imbow  To make like a bow; to curve; to arch; to vault; to embow.
Imbowel  See Embowel.
Imbower  See Embower.
Imbowment  act of imbowing; an arch; a vault.
Imbox  To inclose in a box.
Imbracery  Embracery.
Imbraid  See Embraid.
Imbrangle  To entangle as in a cobweb; to mix confusedly.
Imbreed  To generate within; to inbreed.
Imbricate  Alt. of Imbricated
Imbricated  Bent and hollowed like a roof or gutter tile.
Imbricated  Lying over each other in regular order, so as to "break joints," like tiles or shingles on a roof, the scales on the leaf buds of plants and the cups of some acorns, or the scales of fishes; overlapping each other at the margins, as leaves in aestivation.
Imbricated  In decorative art: Having scales lapping one over the other, or a representation of such scales; as, an imbricated surface; an imbricated pattern.
Imbricate  To lay in order, one lapping over another, so as to form an imbricated surface.
Imbrication  An overlapping of the edges, like that of tiles or shingles; hence, intricacy of structure; also, a pattern or decoration representing such a structure.
Imbricative  Imbricate.
Imbrocadoes  of Imbrocado
Imbrocado  Cloth of silver or of gold.
Imbrocata  Alt. of Imbroccata
Imbroccata  A hit or thrust.
Imbroglios  of Imbroglio
Imbroglio  An intricate, complicated plot, as of a drama or work of fiction.
Imbroglio  A complicated and embarrassing state of things; a serious misunderstanding.
Imbrown  To make brown; to obscure; to darken; to tan; as, features imbrowned by exposure.
Imbureed  of Imbrue
Imbureing  of Imbrue
Imbrue  To wet or moisten; to soak; to drench, especially in blood.
Imbruement  The act of imbruing or state of being imbrued.
Imbruted  of Imbrute
Imbruting  of Imbrute
Imbrute  To degrade to the state of a brute; to make brutal.
Imbrute  To sink to the state of a brute.
Imbrutement  The act of imbruting, or the state of being imbruted.
Imbued  of Imbue
Imbuing  of Imbue
Imbue  To tinge deeply; to dye; to cause to absorb; as, clothes thoroughly imbued with black.
Imbue  To tincture deply; to cause to become impressed or penetrated; as, to imbue the minds of youth with good principles.
Imbuement  The act of imbuing; the state of being imbued; hence, a deep tincture.
Imburse  To supply or stock with money.
Imbursement  The act of imbursing, or the state of being imbursed.
Imbursement  Money laid up in stock.
Imbution  An imbuing.
Imesatin  A dark yellow, crystalline substance, obtained by the action of ammonia on isatin.
Imide  A compound with, or derivative of, the imido group; specif., a compound of one or more acid radicals with the imido group, or with a monamine; hence, also, a derivative of ammonia, in which two atoms of hydrogen have been replaced by divalent basic or acid radicals; -- frequently used as a combining form; as, succinimide.
Imido  Pertaining to, containing, or combined with, the radical NH, which is called the imido group.
Imitability  The quality of being imitable.
Imitable  Capble of being imitated or copied.
Imitable  Worthy of imitation; as, imitable character or qualities.
Imitableness  The state or quality of being imitable; worthness of imitation.
Imitancy  Tendency to imitation.
Imitated  of Imitate
Imitating  of Imitate
Imitate  To follow as a pattern, model, or example; to copy or strive to copy, in acts, manners etc.
Imitate  To produce a semblance or likeness of, in form, character, color, qualities, conduct, manners, and the like; to counterfeit; to copy.
Imitate  To resemble (another species of animal, or a plant, or inanimate object) in form, color, ornamentation, or instinctive habits, so as to derive an advantage thereby; sa, when a harmless snake imitates a venomous one in color and manner, or when an odorless insect imitates, in color, one having secretion offensive to birds.
Imitation  The act of imitating.
Imitation  That which is made or produced as a copy; that which is made to resemble something else, whether for laudable or for fraudulent purposes; likeness; resemblance.
Imitation  One of the principal means of securing unity and consistency in polyphonic composition; the repetition of essentially the same melodic theme, phrase, or motive, on different degrees of pitch, by one or more of the other parts of voises. Cf. Canon.
Imitation  The act of condition of imitating another species of animal, or a plant, or unanimate object. See Imitate, v. t., 3.
Imitational  Pertaining to, or employed in, imitation; as, imitational propensities.
Imitative  Inclined to imitate, copy, or follow; imitating; exhibiting some of the qualities or characteristics of a pattern or model; dependent on example; not original; as, man is an imitative being; painting is an imitative art.
Imitative  Formed after a model, pattern, or original.
Imitative  Designed to imitate another species of animal, or a plant, or inanimate object, for some useful purpose, such as protection from enemies; having resamblance to something else; as, imitative colors; imitative habits; dendritic and mammillary forms of minerals are imitative.
Imitative  A verb expressive of imitation or resemblance.
Imitater  One who imitates.
Imitatorship  The state or office of an imitator.
Imitatress  A woman who is an imitator.
Imitatrix  An imitatress.
Immaculate  Without stain or blemish; spotless; undefiled; clear; pure.
Immailed  Wearing mail or armor; clad of armor.
Immalleable  Not maleable.
Immanacled  of Immanacle
Immanacling  of Immanacle
Immanacle  To manacle; to fetter; hence; to confine; to restrain from free action.
Immanation  A flowing or entering in; -- opposed to emanation.
Immane  Very great; huge; vast; also, monstrous in character; inhuman; atrocious; fierce.
Immanence  Alt. of Immanency
Immanency  The condition or quality of being immanent; inherence; an indwelling.
Immanent  Remaining within; inherent; indwelling; abiding; intrinsic; internal or subjective; hence, limited in activity, agency, or effect, to the subject or associated acts; -- opposed to emanant, transitory, transitive, or objective.
Immanifest  Not manifest.
Immanity  The state or quality of being immane; barbarity.
Immantle  See Emmantle.
Immanuel  God with us; -- an appellation of the Christ.
Immarcescible  Unfading; lasting.
Immarcescibly  Unfadingly.
Immarginate  Not having a distinctive margin or border.
Immartial  Not martial; unwarlike.
Immask  To cover, as with a mask; to disguise or conceal.
Immatchable  Matchless; peerless.
Immaterial  Not consisting of matter; incorporeal; spiritual; disembodied.
Immaterial  Of no substantial consequence; without weight or significance; unimportant; as, it is wholly immaterial whether he does so or not.
Immaterialism  The doctrine that immaterial substances or spiritual being exist, or are possible.
Immaterialism  The doctrine that external bodies may be reduced to mind and ideas in a mind; any doctrine opposed to materialism or phenomenalism, esp. a system that maintains the immateriality of the soul; idealism; esp., Bishop Berkeley's theory of idealism.
Immaterialist  One who believes in or professes, immaterialism.
Immaterialities  of Immateriality
Immateriality  The state or quality of being immaterial or incorporeal; as, the immateriality of the soul.
Immaterialize  To render immaterial or incorporeal.
Immaterially  In an immaterial manner; without matter or corporeal substance.
Immaterially  In an unimportant manner or degree.
Immaterialness  The state or quality of being immaterial; immateriality.
Immateriate  Immaterial.
Immature  Not mature; unripe; not arrived at perfection of full development; crude; unfinished; as, immature fruit; immature character; immature plans.
Immature  Premature; untimely; too early; as, an immature death.
Immatured  Immature.
Immaturely  In an immature manner.
Immatureness  The state or quality of being immature; immaturity.
Immaturity  The state or quality of being immature or not fully developed; unripeness; incompleteness.
Immeability  Want of power to pass, or to permit passage; impassableness.
Immeasurability  The quality of being immeasurable; immensurability.
Immeasurable  Incapble of being measured; indefinitely extensive; illimitable; immensurable; vast.
Immeasurableness  The state or quality of being immeasurable.
Immeasurably  In an immeasurable manner or degree.
Immeasured  Immeasurable.
Immechanical  Not mechanical.
Immediacy  The relation of freedom from the interventionof a medium; immediateness.
Immediate  Not separated in respect to place by anything intervening; proximate; close; as, immediate contact.
Immediate  Not deferred by an interval of time; present; instant.
Immediate  Acting with nothing interposed or between, or without the intervention of another object as a cause, means, or agency; acting, perceived, or produced, directly; as, an immediate cause.
Immediately  In an immediate manner; without intervention of any other person or thing; proximately; directly; -- opposed to mediately; as, immediately contiguous.
Immediately  Without interval of time; without delay; promptly; instantly; at once.
Immediately  As soon as. Cf. Directly, 8, Note.
Immediateness  The quality or relations of being immediate in manner, place, or time; exemption from second or interventing causes.
Immedeatism  Immediateness.
Immedicable  Not to be healed; incurable.
Immelodious  Not melodious.
Immemorable  Not memorable; not worth remembering.
Immemorial  Extending beyond the reach of memory, record, or tradition; indefinitely ancient; as, existing from time immemorial.
Immemorially  Beyond memory.
Immense  Immeasurable; unlimited. In commonest use: Very great; vast; huge.
Immensely  In immense manner or degree.
Immenseness  The state of being immense.
Immensible  Immeasurable.
Immensities  of Immensity
Immensity  The state or quality of being immense; inlimited or immeasurable extension; infinity; vastness in extent or bulk; greatness.
Immensive  Huge.
Immensurability  The quality of being immensurable.
Immensurable  Immeasurable.
Immensurate  Unmeasured; unlimited.
Immerged  of Immerge
Immerging  of Immerge
Immerge  To plungel into, under, or within anything especially a fuid; to dip; to immerse. See Immerse.
Immerge  To dissapear by entering into any medium, as a star into the light of the sun.
Immerit  Want of worth; demerit.
Immerited  Unmerited.
Immeritous  Undeserving.
Immersable  See Immersible.
Immerse  Immersed; buried; hid; sunk.
Immersed  of Immerse
Immersing  of Immerse
Immerse  To plunge into anything that surrounds or covers, especially into a fluid; to dip; to sink; to bury; to immerge.
Immerse  To baptize by immersion.
Immerse  To engage deeply; to engross the attention of; to involve; to overhelm.
Immersed  Deeply plunged into anything, especially a fluid.
Immersed  Deeply occupied; engrossed; entangled.
Immersed  Growing wholly under water.
Immersible  Capable of being immersed.
Immersible  Not capable of being immersed.
Immersion  The act of immersing, or the state of being immersed; a sinking within a fluid; a dipping; as, the immersion of Achilles in the Styx.
Immersion  Submersion in water for the purpose of Christian baptism, as, practiced by the Baptists.
Immersion  The state of being overhelmed or deeply absorbed; deep engagedness.
Immersion  The dissapearance of a celestail body, by passing either behind another, as in the occultation of a star, or into its shadow, as in the eclipse of a satellite; -- opposed to emersion.
Immersionist  One who holds the doctrine that immersion is essential to Christian baptism.
Immeshed  of Immesh
Immeshing  of Immesh
Immesh  To catch or entangle in, or as in, the meshes of a net. or in a web; to insnare.
Immethodical  Not methodical; without method or systematic arrangement; without order or regularity; confused.
Immethodically  Without method; confusedly; unsystematically.
Immethodicalness  Want of method.
Immethodize  To render immethodical; to destroy the method of; to confuse.
Immetrical  Not metrical or rhythmical.
Immew  See Emmew.
Immigrant  One who immigrates; one who comes to a country for the purpose of permanent residence; -- correlative of emigrant.
Immigrated  of Immigrate
Immigrating  of Immigrate
Immigrate  To come into a country of which one is not a native, for the purpose of permanent residence. See Emigrate.
Immigration  The act of immigrating; the passing or coming into a country for the purpose of permanent residence.
Imminence  The condition or quality of being imminent; a threatening, as of something about to happen. The imminence of any danger or distress.
Imminence  That which is imminent; impending evil or danger.
Imminent  Threatening to occur immediately; near at hand; impending; -- said especially of misfortune or peril.
Imminent  Full of danger; threatening; menacing; perilous.
Imminent  (With upon) Bent upon; attentive to.
Imminently  In an imminent manner.
Immingle  To mingle; to mix; to unite; to blend.
Imminution  A lessening; diminution; decrease.
Immiscibility  Incapability of being mixed, or mingled.
Immiscible  Not capable of being mixed or mingled.
Immission  The act of immitting, or of sending or thrusting in; injection; -- the correlative of emission.
Immitted  of Immit
Immiting  of Immit
Immit  To send in; to inject; to infuse; -- the correlative of emit.
Immitigable  Not capable of being mitigated, softened, or appeased.
Immitigably  In an immitigable manner.
Immix  To mix; to mingle.
Immixable  Not mixable.
Immixed  Unmixed.
Immixture  Freedom from mixture; purity.
Immobile  Incapable of being moved; immovable; fixed; stable.
Immobility  The condition or quality of being immobile; fixedness in place or state.
Immobilize  To make immovable; in surgery, to make immovable (a naturally mobile part, as a joint) by the use of splints, or stiffened bandages.
Immoble  See Immobile.
Immoderacy  Immoderateness.
Immoderancy  Immoderateness; excess.
Immoderate  Not moderate; exceeding just or usual and suitable bounds; excessive; extravagant; unreasonable; as, immoderate demands; immoderate grief; immoderate laughter.
Immoderately  In an immoderate manner; excessively.
Immoderateness  The quality of being immoderate; excess; extravagance.
Immoderation  Want of moderation.
Immodest  Not limited to due bounds; immoderate.
Immodest  Not modest; wanting in the reserve or restraint which decorum and decency require; indecent; indelicate; obscene; lewd; as, immodest persons, behavior, words, pictures, etc.
Immodestly  In an immodest manner.
Immodesty  Want of modesty, delicacy, or decent reserve; indecency.
Immolated  of Immolate
Immolating  of Immolate
Immolate  To sacrifice; to offer in sacrifice; to kill, as a sacrificial victim.
Immolation  The act of immolating, or the state of being immolated, or sacrificed.
Immolation  That which is immolated; a sacrifice.
Immolator  One who offers in sacrifice; specifically, one of a sect of Russian fanatics who practice self-mutilatio and sacrifice.
Immold  Alt. of Immould
Immould  To mold into shape, or form.
Immoment  Trifling.
Immomentous  Not momentous; unimportant; insignificant.
Immoral  Not moral; inconsistent with rectitude, purity, or good morals; contrary to conscience or the divine law; wicked; unjust; dishonest; vicious; licentious; as, an immoral man; an immoral deed.
Immoralities  of Immorality
Jjinn  of Djinnee
Jaal  A species of wild goat (Capra Nubiana) found in the mountains of Abyssinia, Upper Egypt, and Arabia; -- called also beden, and jaela.
Jab  To thrust; to stab; to punch. See Job, v. t.
Jab  A thrust or stab.
Jabbered  of Jabber
Jabbering  of Jabber
Jabber  To talk rapidly, indistinctly, or unintelligibly; to utter gibberish or nonsense; to chatter.
Jabber  To utter rapidly or indistinctly; to gabble; as, to jabber French.
Jabber  Rapid or incoherent talk, with indistinct utterance; gibberish.
Jabber  One who jabbers.
Jabberingly  In a jabbering manner.
Jabberment  Jabber.
Jabbernowl  Same as Jobbernowl.
Jabiru  One of several large wading birds of the genera Mycteria and Xenorhynchus, allied to the storks in form and habits.
Jaborandi  The native name of a South American rutaceous shrub (Pilocarpus pennatifolius). The leaves are used in medicine as an diaphoretic and sialogogue.
Jaborine  An alkaloid found in jaborandi leaves, from which it is extracted as a white amorphous substance. In its action it resembles atropine.
Jabot  Originally, a kind of ruffle worn by men on the bosom of the shirt.
Jabot  An arrangement of lace or tulle, looped ornamentally, and worn by women on the front of the dress.
Jacamar  Any one of numerous species of tropical American birds of the genus Galbula and allied genera. They are allied to the kingfishers, but climb on tree trunks like nuthatches, and feed upon insects. Their colors are often brilliant.
Jacana  Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana and several allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings. They are able to run about over floating water weeds by means of their very long, spreading toes. Called also surgeon bird.
Jacaranda  The native Brazilian name for certain leguminous trees, which produce the beautiful woods called king wood, tiger wood, and violet wood.
Jacaranda  A genus of bignoniaceous Brazilian trees with showy trumpet-shaped flowers.
Jacare  A cayman. See Yacare.
Jacchus  The common marmoset (Hapale vulgaris). Formerly, the name was also applied to other species of the same genus.
Jacconet  See Jaconet.
Jacent  Lying at length; as, the jacent posture.
Jacinth  See Hyacinth.
Jack  A large tree, the Artocarpus integrifolia, common in the East Indies, closely allied to the breadfruit, from which it differs in having its leaves entire. The fruit is of great size, weighing from thirty to forty pounds, and through its soft fibrous matter are scattered the seeds, which are roasted and eaten. The wood is of a yellow color, fine grain, and rather heavy, and is much used in cabinetwork. It is also used for dyeing a brilliant yellow.
Jack  A familiar nickname of, or substitute for, John.
Jack  An impertinent or silly fellow; a simpleton; a boor; a clown; also, a servant; a rustic.
Jack  A popular colloquial name for a sailor; -- called also Jack tar, and Jack afloat.
Jack  A mechanical contrivance, an auxiliary machine, or a subordinate part of a machine, rendering convenient service, and often supplying the place of a boy or attendant who was commonly called Jack
Jack  A device to pull off boots.
Jack  A sawhorse or sawbuck.
Jack  A machine or contrivance for turning a spit; a smoke jack, or kitchen jack.
Jack  A wooden wedge for separating rocks rent by blasting.
Jack  A lever for depressing the sinkers which push the loops down on the needles.
Jack  A grating to separate and guide the threads; a heck box.
Jack  A machine for twisting the sliver as it leaves the carding machine.
Jack  A compact, portable machine for planing metal.
Jack  A machine for slicking or pebbling leather.
Jack  A system of gearing driven by a horse power, for multiplying speed.
Jack  A hood or other device placed over a chimney or vent pipe, to prevent a back draught.
Jack  In the harpsichord, an intermediate piece communicating the action of the key to the quill; -- called also hopper.
Jack  In hunting, the pan or frame holding the fuel of the torch used to attract game at night; also, the light itself.
Jack  A portable machine variously constructed, for exerting great pressure, or lifting or moving a heavy body through a small distance. It consists of a lever, screw, rack and pinion, hydraulic press, or any simple combination of mechanical powers, working in a compact pedestal or support and operated by a lever, crank, capstan bar, etc. The name is often given to a jackscrew, which is a kind of jack.
Jack  The small bowl used as a mark in the game of bowls.
Jack  The male of certain animals, as of the ass.
Jack  A young pike; a pickerel.
Jack  The jurel.
Jack  A large, California rock fish (Sebastodes paucispinus); -- called also boccaccio, and merou.
Jack  The wall-eyed pike.
Jack  A drinking measure holding half a pint; also, one holding a quarter of a pint.
Jack  A flag, containing only the union, without the fly, usually hoisted on a jack staff at the bowsprit cap; -- called also union jack. The American jack is a small blue flag, with a star for each State.
Jack  A bar of iron athwart ships at a topgallant masthead, to support a royal mast, and give spread to the royal shrouds; -- called also jack crosstree.
Jack  The knave of a suit of playing cards.
Jack  A coarse and cheap mediaeval coat of defense, esp. one made of leather.
Jack  A pitcher or can of waxed leather; -- called also black jack.
Jack  To hunt game at night by means of a jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4, n.
Jack  To move or lift, as a house, by means of a jack or jacks. See 2d Jack, n., 5.
Jack-a-dandy  A little dandy; a little, foppish, impertinent fellow.
Jackal  Any one of several species of carnivorous animals inhabiting Africa and Asia, related to the dog and wolf. They are cowardly, nocturnal, and gregarious. They feed largely on carrion, and are noted for their piercing and dismal howling.
Jackal  One who does mean work for another's advantage, as jackals were once thought to kill game which lions appropriated.
Jack-a-lent  A small stuffed puppet to be pelted in Lent; hence, a simple fellow.
Jackanapes  A monkey; an ape.
Jackanapes  A coxcomb; an impertinent or conceited fellow.
Jackass  The male ass; a donkey.
Jackass  A conceited dolt; a perverse blockhead.
Jackdaw  See Daw, n.
Jackeen  A drunken, dissolute fellow.
Jacket  A short upper garment, extending downward to the hips; a short coat without skirts.
Jacket  An outer covering for anything, esp. a covering of some nonconducting material such as wood or felt, used to prevent radiation of heat, as from a steam boiler, cylinder, pipe, etc.
Jacket  In ordnance, a strengthening band surrounding and reenforcing the tube in which the charge is fired.
Jacket  A garment resembling a waistcoat lined with cork, to serve as a life preserver; -- called also cork jacket.
Jacket  To put a jacket on; to furnish, as a boiler, with a jacket.
Jacket  To thrash; to beat.
Jacketed  Wearing, or furnished with, a jacket.
Jacketing  The material of a jacket; as, nonconducting jacketing.
Jack  A public executioner, or hangman.
Jackknife  A large, strong clasp knife for the pocket; a pocket knife.
Jackmen  of Jackman
Jackman  One wearing a jack; a horse soldier; a retainer. See 3d Jack, n.
Jackman  A cream cheese.
Jack-o'-lantern  See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack.
Jackpudding  A merry-andrew; a buffoon.
Jacksaw  The merganser.
Jackscrew  A jack in which a screw is used for lifting, or exerting pressure. See Illust. of 2d Jack, n., 5.
Jackslave  A low servant; a mean fellow.
Jacksmith  A smith who makes jacks. See 2d Jack, 4, c.
Jacksnipe  A small European snipe (Limnocryptes gallinula); -- called also judcock, jedcock, juddock, jed, and half snipe.
Jacksnipe  A small American sandpiper (Tringa maculata); -- called also pectoral sandpiper, and grass snipe.
Jackstay  A rail of wood or iron stretching along a yard of a vessel, to which the sails are fastened.
Jackstone  One of the pebbles or pieces used in the game of jackstones.
Jackstone  A game played with five small stones or pieces of metal. See 6th Chuck.
Jackstraw  An effigy stuffed with straw; a scarecrow; hence, a man without property or influence.
Jackstraw  One of a set of straws of strips of ivory, bone, wood, etc., for playing a child's game, the jackstraws being thrown confusedly together on a table, to be gathered up singly by a hooked instrument, without touching or disturbing the rest of the pile. See Spilikin.
Jackwood  Wood of the jack (Artocarpus integrifolia), used in cabinetwork.
Jacob  A Hebrew patriarch (son of Isaac, and ancestor of the Jews), who in a vision saw a ladder reaching up to heaven (Gen. xxviii. 12); -- also called Israel.
Jacobaean  A bulbous plant (Amaryllis, / Sprekelia, formosissima) from Mexico. It bears a single, large, deep, red, lilylike flower.
Jacobean  Alt. of Jacobian
Jacobian  Of or pertaining to a style of architecture and decoration in the time of James the First, of England.
Jacobin  A Dominican friar; -- so named because, before the French Revolution, that order had a convent in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris.
Jacobin  One of a society of violent agitators in France, during the revolution of 1789, who held secret meetings in the Jacobin convent in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris, and concerted measures to control the proceedings of the National Assembly. Hence: A plotter against an existing government; a turbulent demagogue.
Jacobin  A fancy pigeon, in which the feathers of the neck form a hood, -- whence the name. The wings and tail are long, and the beak moderately short.
Jacobin  Same as Jacobinic.
Jacobine  A Jacobin.
Jacobinic  Alt. of Jacobinical
Jacobinical  Of or pertaining to the Jacobins of France; revolutionary; of the nature of, or characterized by, Jacobinism.
Jacobinism  The principles of the Jacobins; violent and factious opposition to legitimate government.
Jacobinized  of Jacobinize
Jacobinizing  of Jacobinize
Jacobinize  To taint with, or convert to, Jacobinism.
Jacobite  A partisan or adherent of James the Second, after his abdication, or of his descendants, an opposer of the revolution in 1688 in favor of William and Mary.
Jacobite  One of the sect of Syrian Monophysites. The sect is named after Jacob Baradaeus, its leader in the sixth century.
Jacobite  Of or pertaining to the Jacobites.
Jacobitic  Alt. of Jacobitical
Jacobitical  Of or pertaining to the Jacobites; characterized by Jacobitism.
Jacobitism  The principles of the Jacobites.
Jacobuses  of Jacobus
Jacobus  An English gold coin, of the value of twenty-five shillings sterling, struck in the reign of James I.
Jaconet  A thin cotton fabric, between and muslin, used for dresses, neckcloths, etc.
Jacquard  Pertaining to, or invented by, Jacquard, a French mechanician, who died in 1834.
Jacqueminot  A half-hardy, deep crimson rose of the remontant class; -- so named after General Jacqueminot, of France.
Jacquerie  The name given to a revolt of French peasants against the nobles in 1358, the leader assuming the contemptuous title, Jacques Bonhomme, given by the nobles to the peasantry. Hence, any revolt of peasants.
Jactancy  A boasting; a bragging.
Jactation  A throwing or tossing of the body; a shaking or agitation.
Jactitation  Vain boasting or assertions repeated to the prejudice of another's right; false claim.
Jactitation  A frequent tossing or moving of the body; restlessness, as in delirium.
Jaculable  Fit for throwing.
Jaculated  of Jaculate
Jaculating  of Jaculate
Jaculate  To throw or cast, as a dart; to throw out; to emit.
Jaculation  The act of tossing, throwing, or hurling, as spears.
Jaculator  One who throws or casts.
Jaculator  The archer fish (Toxotes jaculator).
Jaculatory  Darting or throwing out suddenly; also, suddenly thrown out; uttered in short sentences; ejaculatory; as, jaculatory prayers.
Jadding  See Holing.
Jade  A stone, commonly of a pale to dark green color but sometimes whitish. It is very hard and compact, capable of fine polish, and is used for ornamental purposes and for implements, esp. in Eastern countries and among many early peoples.
Jade  A mean or tired horse; a worthless nag.
Jade  A disreputable or vicious woman; a wench; a quean; also, sometimes, a worthless man.
Jade  A young woman; -- generally so called in irony or slight contempt.
Jaded  of Jade
Jading  of Jade
Jade  To treat like a jade; to spurn.
Jade  To make ridiculous and contemptible.
Jade  To exhaust by overdriving or long-continued labor of any kind; to tire or wear out by severe or tedious tasks; to harass.
Jade  To become weary; to lose spirit.
Jadeite  See Jade, the stone.
Jadery  The tricks of a jade.
Jadish  Vicious; ill-tempered; resembling a jade; -- applied to a horse.
Jadish  Unchaste; -- applied to a woman.
Jaeger  See Jager.
Jag  A notch; a cleft; a barb; a ragged or sharp protuberance; a denticulation.
Jag  A part broken off; a fragment.
Jag  A cleft or division.
Jagged  of Jag
Jagging  of Jag
Jag  To cut into notches or teeth like those of a saw; to notch.
Jag  A small load, as of hay or grain in the straw, or of ore.
Jag  To carry, as a load; as, to jag hay, etc.
Jaganatha  Alt. of Jaganatha
Jaganatha  See Juggernaut.
Jager  A sharpshooter. See Yager.
Jager  Any species of gull of the genus Stercorarius. Three species occur on the Atlantic coast. The jagers pursue other species of gulls and force them to disgorge their prey. The two middle tail feathers are usually decidedly longer than the rest. Called also boatswain, and marline-spike bird. The name is also applied to the skua, or Arctic gull (Megalestris skua).
Jagg  See Jag.
Jagged  Having jags; having rough, sharp notches, protuberances, or teeth; cleft; laciniate; divided; as, jagged rocks.
Jagger  One who carries about a small load; a peddler. See 2d Jag.
Jagger  One who, or that which, jags; specifically: (a) jagging iron used for crimping pies, cakes, etc. (b) A toothed chisel. See Jag, v. t.
Jaggery  Raw palm sugar, made in the East Indies by evaporating the fresh juice of several kinds of palm trees, but specifically that of the palmyra (Borassus flabelliformis).
Jaggy  Having jags; set with teeth; notched; uneven; as, jaggy teeth.
Jaghir  A village or district the government and revenues of which are assigned to some person, usually in consideration of some service to be rendered, esp. the maintenance of troops.
Jaghirdar  The holder of a jaghir.
Jagua  A great Brazilian palm (Maximiliana regia), having immense spathes which are used for baskets and tubs.
Jaguar  A large and powerful feline animal (Felis onca), ranging from Texas and Mexico to Patagonia. It is usually brownish yellow, with large, dark, somewhat angular rings, each generally inclosing one or two dark spots. It is chiefly arboreal in its habits. Called also the American tiger.
Jaguarondi  A South American wild cat (Felis jaguarondi), having a long, slim body and very short legs. Its color is grayish brown, varied with a blackish hue. It is arboreal in its habits and feeds mostly on birds.
Jah  Jehovah.
Jail  A kind of prison; a building for the confinement of persons held in lawful custody, especially for minor offenses or with reference to some future judicial proceeding.
Jail  To imprison.
Jailer  The keeper of a jail or prison.
Jain  Alt. of Jaina
Jaina  One of a numerous sect in British India, holding the tenets of Jainism.
Jainism  The heterodox Hindoo religion, of which the most striking features are the exaltation of saints or holy mortals, called jins, above the ordinary Hindoo gods, and the denial of the divine origin and infallibility of the Vedas. It is intermediate between Brahmanism and Buddhism, having some things in common with each.
Jairou  The ahu or Asiatic gazelle.
Jak  see Ils Jack.
Jakes  A privy.
Jakie  A South American striped frog (Pseudis paradoxa), remarkable for having a tadpole larger than the adult, and hence called also paradoxical frog.
Jako  An African parrot (Psittacus erithacus), very commonly kept as a cage bird; -- called also gray parrot.
Jakwood  See Jackwood.
Jalap  The tubers of the Mexican plant Ipomoea purga (or Exogonium purga), a climber much like the morning-glory. The abstract, extract, and powder, prepared from the tubers, are well known purgative medicines. Other species of Ipomoea yield several inferior kinds of jalap, as the I. Orizabensis, and I. tuberosa.
Jalapic  Of or pertaining to jalap.
Jalapin  A glucoside found in the stems of the jalap plant and scammony. It is a strong purgative.
Jalons  Long poles, topped with wisps of straw, used as landmarks and signals.
Jalousie  A Venetian or slatted inside window blind.
Jalousied  Furnished with jalousies; as, jalousied porches.
Jam  A kind of frock for children.
Jam  See Jamb.
Jammed  of Jam
Jamming  of Jam
Jam  To press into a close or tight position; to crowd; to squeeze; to wedge in.
Jam  To crush or bruise; as, to jam a finger in the crack of a door.
Jam  To bring (a vessel) so close to the wind that half her upper sails are laid aback.
Jam  A mass of people or objects crowded together; also, the pressure from a crowd; a crush; as, a jam in a street; a jam of logs in a river.
Jam  An injury caused by jamming.
Jam  A preserve of fruit boiled with sugar and water; as, raspberry jam; currant jam; grape jam.
Jamacina  Jamaicine.
Jamadar  Same as Jemidar.
Jamaica  One of the West India is islands.
Jamaican  Of or pertaining to Jamaica.
Jamaican  A native or inhabitant of Jamaica.
Jamaicine  An alkaloid said to be contained in the bark of Geoffroya inermis, a leguminous tree growing in Jamaica and Surinam; -- called also jamacina.
Jamb  The vertical side of any opening, as a door or fireplace; hence, less properly, any narrow vertical surface of wall, as the of a chimney-breast or of a pier, as distinguished from its face.
Jamb  Any thick mass of rock which prevents miners from following the lode or vein.
Jamb  See Jam, v. t.
Jambee  A fashionable cane.
Jambes  Alt. of Jambeux
Jambeux  In the Middle Ages, armor for the legs below the knees.
Jambolana  A myrtaceous tree of the West Indies and tropical America (Calyptranthes Jambolana), with astringent bark, used for dyeing. It bears an edible fruit.
Jamdani  A silk fabric, with a woven pattern of sprigs of flowers.
Jamesonite  A steel-gray mineral, of metallic luster, commonly fibrous massive. It is a sulphide of antimony and lead, with a little iron.
James's  Antimonial powder, first prepared by Dr. James, ar English physician; -- called also fever powder.
Jamestown  The poisonous thorn apple or stramonium (Datura stramonium), a rank weed early noticed at Jamestown, Virginia. See Datura.
Jan  One of intermediate order between angels and men.
Jane  A coin of Genoa; any small coin.
Jane  A kind of twilled cotton cloth. See Jean.
Jane-of-apes  A silly, pert girl; -- corresponding to jackanapes.
Jangled  of Jangle
Jangling  of Jangle
Jangle  To sound harshly or discordantly, as bells out of tune.
Jangle  To talk idly; to prate; to babble; to chatter; to gossip.
Jangle  To quarrel in words; to altercate; to wrangle.
Jangle  To cause to sound harshly or inharmoniously; to produce discordant sounds with.
Jangle  Idle talk; prate; chatter; babble.
Jangle  Discordant sound; wrangling.
Jangler  An idle talker; a babbler; a prater.
Jangler  A wrangling, noisy fellow.
Jangleress  A female prater or babbler.
Janglery  Jangling.
Jangling  Producing discordant sounds.
Jangling  Idle babbling; vain disputation.
Jangling  Wrangling; altercation.
Janissary  See Janizary.
Janitor  A door-keeper; a porter; one who has the care of a public building, or a building occupied for offices, suites of rooms, etc.
Janitress  Alt. of Janitrix
Janitrix  A female janitor.
Janizar  A janizary.
Janizarian  Of or pertaining to the janizaries, or their government.
Janizaries  of Janizary
Janizary  A soldier of a privileged military class, which formed the nucleus of the Turkish infantry, but was suppressed in 1826.
Janker  A long pole on two wheels, used in hauling logs.
Jansenism  The doctrine of Jansen regarding free will and divine grace.
Jansenist  A follower of Cornelius Jansen, a Roman Catholic bishop of Ypres, in Flanders, in the 17th century, who taught certain doctrines denying free will and the possibility of resisting divine grace.
Jant  See Jaunt.
Janthina  See Ianthina.
Jantily  See Jauntily.
Jantiness  See Jauntiness.
Jantu  A machine of great antiquity, used in Bengal for raising water to irrigate land.
Janty  See Jaunty.
January  The first month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
Janus  A Latin deity represented with two faces looking in opposite directions. Numa is said to have dedicated to Janus the covered passage at Rome, near the Forum, which is usually called the Temple of Janus. This passage was open in war and closed in peace.
Janus-faced  Double-faced; deceitful.
Janus-headed  Double-headed.
Japan  Work varnished and figured in the Japanese manner; also, the varnish or lacquer used in japanning.
Japan  Of or pertaining to Japan, or to the lacquered work of that country; as, Japan ware.
Japanned  of Japan
Japanning  of Japan
Japan  To cover with a coat of hard, brilliant varnish, in the manner of the Japanese; to lacquer.
Japan  To give a glossy black to, as shoes.
Japanese  Of or pertaining to Japan, or its inhabitants.
Japanese  A native or inhabitant of Japan; collectively, the people of Japan.
Japanese  The language of the people of Japan.
Japanned  Treated, or coated, with varnish in the Japanese manner.
Japanner  One who varnishes in the manner of the Japanese, or one skilled in the art.
Japanner  A bootblack.
Japanning  The art or act of varnishing in the Japanese manner.
Japannish  After the manner of the Japanese; resembling japanned articles.
Jape  To jest; to play tricks; to jeer.
Jape  To mock; to trick.
Japer  A jester; a buffoon.
Japery  Jesting; buffoonery.
Japhethite  A Japhetite.
Japhetic  Pertaining to, or derived from, Japheth, one of the sons of Noah; as, Japhetic nations, the nations of Europe and Northern Asia; Japhetic languages.
Japhetite  A descendant of Japheth.
Japonica  A species of Camellia (Camellia Japonica), a native of Japan, bearing beautiful red or white flowers. Many other genera have species of the same name.
Jar  A turn. [Only in phrase.]
Jar  A deep, broad-mouthed vessel of earthenware or glass, for holding fruit, preserves, etc., or for ornamental purposes; as, a jar of honey; a rose jar.
Jar  The measure of what is contained in a jar; as, a jar of oil; a jar of preserves.
Jarred  of Jar
jarring  of Jar
Jar  To give forth a rudely quivering or tremulous sound; to sound harshly or discordantly; as, the notes jarred on my ears.
Jar  To act in opposition or disagreement; to clash; to interfere; to quarrel; to dispute.
Jar  To cause a short, tremulous motion of, to cause to tremble, as by a sudden shock or blow; to shake; to shock; as, to jar the earth; to jar one's faith.
Jar  To tick; to beat; to mark or tell off.
Jar  A rattling, tremulous vibration or shock; a shake; a harsh sound; a discord; as, the jar of a train; the jar of harsh sounds.
Jar  Clash of interest or opinions; collision; discord; debate; slight disagreement.
Jar  A regular vibration, as of a pendulum.
Jar  In deep well boring, a device resembling two long chain links, for connecting a percussion drill to the rod or rope which works it, so that the drill is driven down by impact and is jerked loose when jammed.
Jararaca  A poisonous serpent of Brazil (Bothrops jararaca), about eighteen inches long, and of a dusky, brownish color, variegated with red and black spots.
Jarble  To wet; to bemire.
Jardiniere  An ornamental stand or receptacle for plants, flowers, etc., used as a piece of decorative furniture in room.
Jards  A callous tumor on the leg of a horse, below the hock.
Jargle  To emit a harsh or discordant sound.
Jargon  Confused, unintelligible language; gibberish; hence, an artificial idiom or dialect; cant language; slang.
Jargoned  of Jargon
Jargoning  of Jargon
Jargon  To utter jargon; to emit confused or unintelligible sounds; to talk unintelligibly, or in a harsh and noisy manner.
Jargon  A variety of zircon. See Zircon.
Jargonelle  A variety of pear which ripens early.
Jargonic  Of or pertaining to the mineral jargon.
Jargonist  One addicted to jargon; one who uses cant or slang.
Jarl  A chief; an earl; in English history, one of the leaders in the Danish and Norse invasions.
Jarnut  An earthnut.
Jarosite  An ocher-yellow mineral occurring on minute rhombohedral crystals. It is a hydrous sulphate of iron and potash.
Jar-owl  The goatsucker.
Jarrah  The mahoganylike wood of the Australian Eucalyptus marginata. See Eucalyptus.
Jarring  Shaking; disturbing; discordant.
Jarring  A shaking; a tremulous motion; as, the jarring of a steamship, caused by its engines.
Jarring  Discord; a clashing of interests.
Jarringly  In a jarring or discordant manner.
Jarvey  Alt. of Jarvy
Jarvy  The driver of a hackney coach.
Jarvy  A hackney coach.
Jasey  A wig; -- so called, perhaps, from being made of, or resembling, Jersey yarn.
Jashawk  A young hawk.
Jasmine  A shrubby plant of the genus Jasminum, bearing flowers of a peculiarly fragrant odor. The J. officinale, common in the south of Europe, bears white flowers. The Arabian jasmine is J. Sambac, and, with J. angustifolia, comes from the East Indies. The yellow false jasmine in the Gelseminum sempervirens (see Gelsemium). Several other plants are called jasmine in the West Indies, as species of Calotropis and Faramea.
Jasp  Jasper.
Jaspachate  Agate jasper.
Jasper  An opaque, impure variety of quartz, of red, yellow, and other dull colors, breaking with a smooth surface. It admits of a high polish, and is used for vases, seals, snuff boxes, etc. When the colors are in stripes or bands, it is called striped / banded jasper. The Egyptian pebble is a brownish yellow jasper.
Jasperated  mixed with jasper; containing particles of jasper; as, jasperated agate.
Jasperize  To convert into, or make to resemble, jasper.
Jaspery  Of the nature of jasper; mixed with jasper.
Jaspidean  Alt. of Jaspideous
Jaspideous  Consisting of jasper, or containing jasper; jaspery; jasperlike.
Jaspilite  A compact siliceous rock resembling jasper.
Jaspoid  Resembling jasper.
Jasponyx  An onyx, part or all of whose layers consist of jasper.
Jatrophic  Of or pertaining to physic nuts, the seeds of plants of the genus Jatropha.
Jaunce  To ride hard; to jounce.
Jaundice  A morbid condition, characterized by yellowness of the eyes, skin, and urine, whiteness of the faeces, constipation, uneasiness in the region of the stomach, loss of appetite, and general languor and lassitude. It is caused usually by obstruction of the biliary passages and consequent damming up, in the liver, of the bile, which is then absorbed into the blood.
Jaundice  To affect with jaundice; to color by prejudice or envy; to prejudice.
Jaundiced  Affected with jaundice.
Jaundiced  Prejudiced; envious; as, a jaundiced judgment.
Jaunted  of Jaunt
Jaunting  of Jaunt
Jaunt  To ramble here and there; to stroll; to make an excursion.
Jaunt  To ride on a jaunting car.
Jaunt  To jolt; to jounce.
Jaunt  A wearisome journey.
Jaunt  A short excursion for pleasure or refreshment; a ramble; a short journey.
Jauntily  In a jaunty manner.
Jauntiness  The quality of being jaunty.
Jaunty  Airy; showy; finical; hence, characterized by an affected or fantastical manner.
Java  One of the islands of the Malay Archipelago belonging to the Netherlands.
Java  Java coffee, a kind of coffee brought from Java.
Javanese  Of or pertaining to Java, or to the people of Java.
Javanese  A native or natives of Java.
Javel  A vagabond.
Javelin  A sort of light spear, to be thrown or cast by thew hand; anciently, a weapon of war used by horsemen and foot soldiers; now used chiefly in hunting the wild boar and other fierce game.
Javelin  To pierce with a javelin.
Javelinier  A soldier armed with a javelin.
Jaw  One of the bones, usually bearing teeth, which form the framework of the mouth.
Jaw  Hence, also, the bone itself with the teeth and covering.
Jaw  In the plural, the mouth.
Jaw  Fig.: Anything resembling the jaw of an animal in form or action; esp., pl., the mouth or way of entrance; as, the jaws of a pass; the jaws of darkness; the jaws of death.
Jaw  A notch or opening.
Jaw  A notched or forked part, adapted for holding an object in place; as, the jaw of a railway-car pedestal. See Axle guard.
Jaw  One of a pair of opposing parts which are movable towards or from each other, for grasping or crushing anything between them, as, the jaws of a vise, or the jaws of a stone-crushing machine.
Jaw  The inner end of a boom or gaff, hollowed in a half circle so as to move freely on a mast.
Jaw  Impudent or abusive talk.
Jawed  of Jaw
Jawing  of Jaw
Jaw  To scold; to clamor.
Jaw  To assail or abuse by scolding.
Jawbone  The bone of either jaw; a maxilla or a mandible.
Jawed  Having jaws; -- chiefly in composition; as, lantern-jawed.
Jaw-fallen  Dejected; chopfallen.
Jawfoot  See Maxilliped.
Jawing  Scolding; clamorous or abusive talk.
Jawn  See Yawn.
Jawy  Relating to the jaws.
Jay  Any one of the numerous species of birds belonging to Garrulus, Cyanocitta, and allied genera. They are allied to the crows, but are smaller, more graceful in form, often handsomely colored, and usually have a crest.
Jayet  See Jet.
Jayhawker  A name given to a free-booting, unenlisted, armed man or guerrilla.
Jazel  A gem of an azure color.
Jazerant  A coat of defense made of small plates of metal sewed upon linen or the like; also, this kind of armor taken generally; as, a coat of jazerant.
Jealous  Zealous; solicitous; vigilant; anxiously watchful.
Jealous  Apprehensive; anxious; suspiciously watchful.
Jealous  Exacting exclusive devotion; intolerant of rivalry.
Jealous  Disposed to suspect rivalry in matters of interest and affection; apprehensive regarding the motives of possible rivals, or the fidelity of friends; distrustful; having morbid fear of rivalry in love or preference given to another; painfully suspicious of the faithfulness of husband, wife, or lover.
Jealoushood  Jealousy.
Jealously  In a jealous manner.
Jealousness  State or quality of being jealous.
Jealousies  of Jealousy
Jealousy  The quality of being jealous; earnest concern or solicitude; painful apprehension of rivalship in cases nearly affecting one's happiness; painful suspicion of the faithfulness of husband, wife, or lover.
Jeames  A footman; a flunky.
Jean  A twilled cotton cloth.
Jears  See 1st Jeer (b).
Jeat  See Jet.
Jedding  A stone mason's tool, having a flat face and a pointed part.
Jee  See Gee.
Jeel  A morass; a shallow lake.
Jeer  A gear; a tackle.
Jeer  An assemblage or combination of tackles, for hoisting or lowering the lower yards of a ship.
Jeered  of Jeer
Jeering  of Jeer
Jeer  To utter sarcastic or scoffing reflections; to speak with mockery or derision; to use taunting language; to scoff; as, to jeer at a speaker.
Jeer  To treat with scoffs or derision; to address with jeers; to taunt; to flout; to mock at.
Jeer  A railing remark or reflection; a scoff; a taunt; a biting jest; a flout; a jibe; mockery.
Jeerer  A scoffer; a railer; a mocker.
Jeering  Mocking; scoffing.
Jeering  A mocking utterance.
Jeers  See 1st Jeer (b).
Jeffersonia  An American herb with a pretty, white, solitary blossom, and deeply two-cleft leaves (Jeffersonia diphylla); twinleaf.
Jeffersonian  Pertaining to, or characteristic of, Thomas Jefferson or his policy or political doctrines.
Jeffersonite  A variety of pyroxene of olive-green color passing into brown. It contains zinc.
Jeg  See Jig, 6.
Jehovah  A Scripture name of the Supreme Being, by which he was revealed to the Jews as their covenant God or Sovereign of the theocracy; the "ineffable name" of the Supreme Being, which was not pronounced by the Jews.
Jehovist  One who maintains that the vowel points of the word Jehovah, in Hebrew, are the proper vowels of that word; -- opposed to adonist.
Jehovist  The writer of the passages of the Old Testament, especially those of the Pentateuch, in which the Supreme Being is styled Jehovah. See Elohist.
Jehovistic  Relating to, or containing, Jehovah, as a name of God; -- said of certain parts of the Old Testament, especially of the Pentateuch, in which Jehovah appears as the name of the Deity. See Elohistic.
Jehu  A coachman; a driver; especially, one who drives furiously.
Jejunal  Pertaining to the jejunum.
Jejune  Lacking matter; empty; void of substance.
Jejune  Void of interest; barren; meager; dry; as, a jejune narrative.
Jejunity  The quality of being jejune; jejuneness.
Jejunum  The middle division of the small intestine, between the duodenum and ileum; -- so called because usually found empty after death.
Jelerang  A large, handsome squirrel (Sciurus Javensis), native of Java and Southern Asia; -- called also Java squirrel.
Jell  To jelly.
Jellied  Brought to the state or consistence of jelly.
Jellies  of Jelly
Jelly  Anything brought to a gelatinous condition; a viscous, translucent substance in a condition between liquid and solid; a stiffened solution of gelatin, gum, or the like.
Jelly  The juice of fruits or meats boiled with sugar to an elastic consistence; as, currant jelly; calf's-foot jelly.
Jellied  of Jelly
Jellying  of Jelly
Jelly  To become jelly; to come to the state or consistency of jelly.
Jellyfish  Any one of the acalephs, esp. one of the larger species, having a jellylike appearance. See Medusa.
Jemidar  The chief or leader of a hand or body of persons; esp., in the native army of India, an officer of a rank corresponding to that of lieutenant in the English army.
Jemlah  The jharal.
Jemminess  Spruceness.
Jemmy  Spruce.
Jemmy  A short crowbar. See Jimmy.
Jemmy  A baked sheep's head.
Jeniquen  A Mexican name for the Sisal hemp (Agave rigida, var. Sisalana); also, its fiber.
Jenite  See Yenite.
Jenkins  name of contempt for a flatterer of persons high in social or official life; as, the Jenkins employed by a newspaper.
Jennet  A small Spanish horse; a genet.
Jenneting  A variety of early apple. See Juneating.
Jennies  of Jenny
Jenny  A familiar or pet form of the proper name Jane.
Jenny  A familiar name of the European wren.
Jenny  A machine for spinning a number of threads at once, -- used in factories.
Jentling  A fish of the genus Leuciscus; the blue chub of the Danube.
Jeofail  An oversight in pleading, or the acknowledgment of a mistake or oversight.
Jeoparded  of Jeopard
Jeoparding  of Jeopard
Jeopard  To put in jeopardy; to expose to loss or injury; to imperil; to hazard.
Jeoparder  One who puts in jeopardy.
Jeopardized  of Jeopardize
Jeopardizing  of Jeopardize
Jeopardize  To expose to loss or injury; to risk; to jeopard.
Jeopardous  Perilous; hazardous.
Jeopardy  Exposure to death, loss, or injury; hazard; danger.
Jeopardy  To jeopardize.
Jerboa  Any small jumping rodent of the genus Dipus, esp. D. Aegyptius, which is common in Egypt and the adjacent countries. The jerboas have very long hind legs and a long tail.
Jereed  A blunt javelin used by the people of the Levant, especially in mock fights.
Jeremiad  Alt. of Jeremiade
Jeremiade  A tale of sorrow, disappointment, or complaint; a doleful story; a dolorous tirade; -- generally used satirically.
Jerfalcon  The gyrfalcon.
Jerguer  See Jerquer.
Jerid  Same as Jereed.
Jerk  To cut into long slices or strips and dry in the sun; as, jerk beef. See Charqui.
Jerked  of Jerk
Jerking  of Jerk
Jerk  To beat; to strike.
Jerk  To give a quick and suddenly arrested thrust, push, pull, or twist, to; to yerk; as, to jerk one with the elbow; to jerk a coat off.
Jerk  To throw with a quick and suddenly arrested motion of the hand; as, to jerk a stone.
Jerk  To make a sudden motion; to move with a start, or by starts.
Jerk  To flout with contempt.
Jerk  A short, sudden pull, thrust, push, twitch, jolt, shake, or similar motion.
Jerk  A sudden start or spring.
Jerker  A beater.
Jerker  One who jerks or moves with a jerk.
Jerker  A North American river chub (Hybopsis biguttatus).
Jerkin  A jacket or short coat; a close waistcoat.
Jerkin  A male gyrfalcon.
Jerking  The act of pulling, pushing, or throwing, with a jerk.
Jerkinhead  The hipped part of a roof which is hipped only for a part of its height, leaving a truncated gable.
Jerky  Moving by jerks and starts; characterized by abrupt transitions; as, a jerky vehicle; a jerky style.
Jermoonal  The Himalayan now partridge.
Jeronymite  One belonging of the mediaeval religious orders called Hermits of St. Jerome.
Jeropigia  See Geropigia.
Jerquer  A customhouse officer who searches ships for unentered goods.
Jerquing  The searching of a ship for unentered goods.
Jerquing  The searching of a ship for unentered goods.
Jerry-built  Built hastily and of bad materials; as, jerry-built houses.
Jerseys  of Jersey
Jersey  The finest of wool separated from the rest; combed wool; also, fine yarn of wool.
Jersey  A kind of knitted jacket; hence, in general, a closefitting jacket or upper garment made of an elastic fabric (as stockinet).
Jersey  One of a breed of cattle in the Island of Jersey. Jerseys are noted for the richness of their milk.
Jerusalem  The chief city of Palestine, intimately associated with the glory of the Jewish nation, and the life and death of Jesus Christ.
Jervine  A poisonous alkaloid resembling veratrine, and found with it in white hellebore (Veratrum album); -- called also jervina.
Jesses  of Jess
Jess  A short strap of leather or silk secured round the leg of a hawk, to which the leash or line, wrapped round the falconer's hand, was attached when used. See Illust. of Falcon.
Jessamine  Same as Jasmine.
Jessant  Springing up or emerging; -- said of a plant or animal.
Jesse  Any representation or suggestion of the genealogy of Christ, in decorative art
Jesse  A genealogical tree represented in stained glass.
Jesse  A candlestick with many branches, each of which bears the name of some one of the descendants of Jesse; -- called also tree of Jesse.
Jessed  Having jesses on, as a hawk.
Jest  A deed; an action; a gest.
Jest  A mask; a pageant; an interlude.
Jest  Something done or said in order to amuse; a joke; a witticism; a jocose or sportive remark or phrase. See Synonyms under Jest, v. i.
Jest  The object of laughter or sport; a laughingstock.
Jested  of Jest
Jesting  of Jest
Jest  To take part in a merrymaking; -- especially, to act in a mask or interlude.
Jest  To make merriment by words or actions; to joke; to make light of anything.
Jester  A buffoon; a merry-andrew; a court fool.
Jester  A person addicted to jesting, or to indulgence in light and amusing talk.
Jestful  Given to jesting; full of jokes.
Jesting  Sportive; not serious; fit for jests.
Jesting  The act or practice of making jests; joking; pleasantry.
Jestingly  In a jesting manner.
Jesuit  One of a religious order founded by Ignatius Loyola, and approved in 1540, under the title of The Society of Jesus.
Jesuit  Fig.: A crafty person; an intriguer.
Jesuited  Conforming to the principles of the Jesuits.
Jesuitess  One of an order of nuns established on the principles of the Jesuits, but suppressed by Pope Urban in 1633.
Jesuitic  Alt. of Jesuitical
Jesuitical  Of or pertaining to the Jesuits, or to their principles and methods.
Jesuitical  Designing; cunning; deceitful; crafty; -- an opprobrious use of the word.
Jesuitically  In a jesuitical manner.
Jesuitism  The principles and practices of the Jesuits.
Jesuitism  Cunning; deceit; deceptive practices to effect a purpose; subtle argument; -- an opprobrious use of the word.
Jesuitocracy  Government by Jesuits; also, the whole body of Jesuits in a country.
Jesuitry  Jesuitism; subtle argument.
Jesus  The Savior; the name of the Son of God as announced by the angel to his parents; the personal name of Our Lord, in distinction from Christ, his official appellation.
Jet  Same as 2d Get.
Jet  A variety of lignite, of a very compact texture and velvet black color, susceptible of a good polish, and often wrought into mourning jewelry, toys, buttons, etc. Formerly called also black amber.
Jet  A shooting forth; a spouting; a spurt; a sudden rush or gush, as of water from a pipe, or of flame from an orifice; also, that which issues in a jet.
Jet  Drift; scope; range, as of an argument.
Jet  The sprue of a type, which is broken from it when the type is cold.
Jetted  of Jet
Jetting  of Jet
Jet  To strut; to walk with a lofty or haughty gait; to be insolent; to obtrude.
Jet  To jerk; to jolt; to be shaken.
Jet  To shoot forward or out; to project; to jut out.
Jet  To spout; to emit in a stream or jet.
Jet-black  Black as jet; deep black.
Jets  of Jet d'eau
Jet  A stream of water spouting from a fountain or pipe (especially from one arranged to throw water upward), in a public place or in a garden, for ornament.
Jeterus  A yellowness of the parts of plants which are normally green; yellows.
Jetsam  Alt. of Jetson
Jetson  Goods which sink when cast into the sea, and remain under water; -- distinguished from flotsam, goods which float, and ligan, goods which are sunk attached to a buoy.
Jetson  Jettison. See Jettison, 1.
Jetteau  See Jet d'eau.
Jettee  See Jetty, n.
Jetter  One who struts; one who bears himself jauntily; a fop.
Jettiness  The state of being jetty; blackness.
Jettison  The throwing overboard of goods from necessity, in order to lighten a vessel in danger of wreck.
Jettison  See Jetsam, 1.
Jetton  A metal counter used in playing cards.
Jetty  Made of jet, or like jet in color.
Jetties  of Jetty
Jetty  A part of a building that jets or projects beyond the rest, and overhangs the wall below.
Jetty  A wharf or pier extending from the shore.
Jetty  A structure of wood or stone extended into the sea to influence the current or tide, or to protect a harbor; a mole; as, the Eads system of jetties at the mouth of the Mississippi River.
Jetty  To jut out; to project.
Jeu  A witticism.
Jew  Originally, one belonging to the tribe or kingdom of Judah; after the return from the Babylonish captivity, any member of the new state; a Hebrew; an Israelite.
Jewbush  A euphorbiaceous shrub of the genus Pedilanthus (P. tithymaloides), found in the West Indies, and possessing powerful emetic and drastic qualities.
Jewel  An ornament of dress usually made of a precious metal, and having enamel or precious stones as a part of its design.
Jewel  A precious stone; a gem.
Jewel  An object regarded with special affection; a precious thing.
Jewel  A bearing for a pivot a pivot in a watch, formed of a crystal or precious stone, as a ruby.
Jeweled  of Jewel
Jewelled  of Jewel
Jeweling  of Jewel
Jewelling  of Jewel
Jewel  To dress, adorn, deck, or supply with jewels, as a dress, a sword hilt, or a watch; to bespangle, as with jewels.
Jeweler  One who makes, or deals in, jewels, precious stones, and similar ornaments.
Jewellery  See Jewelry.
Jewelry  The art or trade of a jeweler.
Jewelry  Jewels, collectively; as, a bride's jewelry.
Jewelweed  See Impatiens.
Jewess  A Hebrew woman.
Jewfish  A very large serranoid fish (Promicrops itaiara) of Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. It often reaches the weight of five hundred pounds. Its color is olivaceous or yellowish, with numerous brown spots. Called also guasa, and warsaw.
Jewfish  A similar gigantic fish (Stereolepis gigas) of Southern California, valued as a food fish.
Jewfish  The black grouper of Florida and Texas.
Jewfish  A large herringlike fish; the tarpum.
Jewise  Same as Juise.
Jewish  Of or pertaining to the Jews or Hebrews; characteristic of or resembling the Jews or their customs; Israelitish.
Jewry  Judea; also, a district inhabited by Jews; a Jews' quarter.
Jew's-ear  A species of fungus (Hirneola Auricula-Judae, / Auricula), bearing some resemblance to the human ear.
Jew's-harp  An instrument of music, which, when placed between the teeth, gives, by means of a bent metal tongue struck by the finger, a sound which is modulated by the breath; -- called also Jew's-trump.
Jew's-harp  The shackle for joining a chain cable to an anchor.
Jew's-stone  Alt. of Jewstone
Jewstone  A large clavate spine of a fossil sea urchin.
Jezebel  A bold, vicious woman; a termagant.
Jharal  A wild goat (Capra Jemlaica) which inhabits the loftiest mountains of India. It has long, coarse hair, forming a thick mane on its head and neck.
Jib  A triangular sail set upon a stay or halyard extending from the foremast or fore-topmast to the bowsprit or the jib boom. Large vessels often carry several jibe; as, inner jib; outer jib; flying jib; etc.
Jib  The projecting arm of a crane, from which the load is suspended.
Jib  To move restively backward or sidewise, -- said of a horse; to balk.
Jibber  A horse that jibs.
Jibed  of Jibe
Jibing  of Jibe
Jibe  To shift, as the boom of a fore-and-aft sail, from one side of a vessel to the other when the wind is aft or on the quarter. See Gybe.
Jibe  To change a ship's course so as to cause a shifting of the boom. See Jibe, v. t., and Gybe.
Jibe  To agree; to harmonize.
Jiffy  A moment; an instant; as, I will be ready in a jiffy.
Jig  A light, brisk musical movement.
Jig  A light, humorous piece of writing, esp. in rhyme; a farce in verse; a ballad.
Jig  A piece of sport; a trick; a prank.
Jig  A trolling bait, consisting of a bright spoon and a hook attached.
Jig  A small machine or handy tool
Jig  A contrivance fastened to or inclosing a piece of work, and having hard steel surfaces to guide a tool, as a drill, or to form a shield or templet to work to, as in filing.
Jig  An apparatus or a machine for jigging ore.
Jigged  of Jig
Jigging  of Jig
Jig  To sing to the tune of a jig.
Jig  To trick or cheat; to cajole; to delude.
Jig  To sort or separate, as ore in a jigger or sieve. See Jigging, n.
Jig  To cut or form, as a piece of metal, in a jigging machine.
Jig  To dance a jig; to skip about.
Jigger  A species of flea (Sarcopsylla, / Pulex, penetrans), which burrows beneath the skin. See Chigoe.
Jigger  One who, or that which, jigs; specifically, a miner who sorts or cleans ore by the process of jigging; also, the sieve used in jigging.
Jigger  A horizontal table carrying a revolving mold, on which earthen vessels are shaped by rapid motion; a potter's wheel.
Jigger  A templet or tool by which vessels are shaped on a potter's wheel.
Jigger  A light tackle, consisting of a double and single block and the fall, used for various purposes, as to increase the purchase on a topsail sheet in hauling it home; the watch tackle.
Jigger  A small fishing vessel, rigged like a yawl.
Jigger  A supplementary sail. See Dandy, n., 2 (b).
Jigger  A pendulum rolling machine for slicking or graining leather; same as Jack, 4 (i).
Jigging  The act or using a jig; the act of separating ore with a jigger, or wire-bottomed sieve, which is moved up and down in water.
Jiggish  Resembling, or suitable for, a jig, or lively movement.
Jiggish  Playful; frisky.
Jiggle  To wriggle or frisk about; to move awkwardly; to shake up and down.
Jigjog  A jolting motion; a jogging pace.
Jigjog  Having a jolting motion.
Jill  A young woman; a sweetheart. See Gill.
Jill-flirt  A light, giddy, or wanton girl or woman. See Gill-flirt.
Jilt  A woman who capriciously deceives her lover; a coquette; a flirt.
Jilted  of Jilt
Jilting  of Jilt
Jilt  To cast off capriciously or unfeeling, as a lover; to deceive in love.
Jilt  To play the jilt; to practice deception in love; to discard lovers capriciously.
Jimcrack  See Gimcrack.
Jim-crow  A machine for bending or straightening rails.
Jim-crow  A planing machine with a reversing tool, to plane both ways.
Jimmies  of Jimmy
Jimmy  A short crowbar used by burglars in breaking open doors.
Jimp  Neat; handsome; elegant. See Gimp.
Jimson  See Jamestown weed.
Jin  Alt. of Jinn
Jinn  See Jinnee.
Jingal  A small portable piece of ordnance, mounted on a swivel.
Jingle  To sound with a fine, sharp, rattling, clinking, or tinkling sound; as, sleigh bells jingle.
Jingle  To rhyme or sound with a jingling effect.
Jingled  of Jingle
Jingling  of Jingle
Jingle  To cause to give a sharp metallic sound as a little bell, or as coins shaken together; to tinkle.
Jingle  A rattling, clinking, or tinkling sound, as of little bells or pieces of metal.
Jingle  That which makes a jingling sound, as a rattle.
Jingle  A correspondence of sound in rhymes, especially when the verse has little merit; hence, the verse itself.
Jingler  One who, or that which, jingles.
Jingling  The act or process of producing a jingle; also, the sound itself; a chink.
Jinglingly  So as to jingle.
Jingoes  of Jingo
Jingo  A word used as a jocular oath.
Jingo  A statesman who pursues, or who favors, aggressive, domineering policy in foreign affairs.
Jingoism  The policy of the Jingoes, so called. See Jingo, 2.
Jinn  of Jinnee
Jinnee  A genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evil spirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the power of assuming various forms.
Jinny  An inclined road in a coal mine, on which loaded cars descend by gravity, drawing up empty ones.
Jinrikisha  A small, two-wheeled, hooded vehicle drawn by one more men.
Jippo  A waistcoat or kind of stays for women.
Joes  of Jo
Job  A sudden thrust or stab; a jab.
Job  A piece of chance or occasional work; any definite work undertaken in gross for a fixed price; as, he did the job for a thousand dollars.
Job  A public transaction done for private profit; something performed ostensibly as a part of official duty, but really for private gain; a corrupt official business.
Job  Any affair or event which affects one, whether fortunately or unfortunately.
Job  A situation or opportunity of work; as, he lost his job.
Jobbed  of Job
Jobbing  of Job
Job  To strike or stab with a pointed instrument.
Job  To thrust in, as a pointed instrument.
Job  To do or cause to be done by separate portions or lots; to sublet (work); as, to job a contract.
Job  To buy and sell, as a broker; to purchase of importers or manufacturers for the purpose of selling to retailers; as, to job goods.
Job  To hire or let by the job or for a period of service; as, to job a carriage.
Job  To do chance work for hire; to work by the piece; to do petty work.
Job  To seek private gain under pretense of public service; to turn public matters to private advantage.
Job  To carry on the business of a jobber in merchandise or stocks.
Job  The hero of the book of that name in the Old Testament; the typical patient man.
Jobation  A scolding; a hand, tedious reproof.
Jobber  One who works by the job.
Jobber  A dealer in the public stocks or funds; a stockjobber.
Jobber  One who buys goods from importers, wholesalers, or manufacturers, and sells to retailers.
Jobber  One who turns official or public business to private advantage; hence, one who performs low or mercenary work in office, politics, or intrigue.
Jobbernowl  A blockhead.
Jobbery  The act or practice of jobbing.
Jobbery  Underhand management; official corruption; as, municipal jobbery.
Jobbing  Doing chance work or add jobs; as, a jobbing carpenter.
Jobbing  Using opportunities of public service for private gain; as, a jobbing politician.
Jocantry  The act or practice of jesting.
Jockeys  of Jockey
Jockey  A professional rider of horses in races.
Jockey  A dealer in horses; a horse trader.
Jockey  A cheat; one given to sharp practice in trade.
Jockeyed  of Jockey
Jockeying  of Jockey
Jockey  " To jostle by riding against one."
Jockey  To play the jockey toward; to cheat; to trick; to impose upon in trade; as, to jockey a customer.
Jockey  To play or act the jockey; to cheat.
Jockeying  The act or management of one who jockeys; trickery.
Jockeyism  The practice of jockeys.
Jockeyship  The art, character, or position, of a jockey; the personality of a jockey.
Jocose  Given to jokes and jesting; containing a joke, or abounding in jokes; merry; sportive; humorous.
Jocoserious  Mingling mirth and seriousness.
Jocosity  A jocose act or saying; jocoseness.
Jocular  Given to jesting; jocose; as, a jocular person.
Jocular  Sportive; merry.
Jocularity  Jesting; merriment.
Jocularly  In jest; for sport or mirth; jocosely.
Joculary  Jocular; jocose; sportive.
Joculator  A jester; a joker.
Joculatory  Droll; sportive.
Jocund  Merry; cheerful; gay; airy; lively; sportive.
Jocund  Merrily; cheerfully.
Jocundity  The state or quality of being jocund; gayety; sportiveness.
Joe  See Johannes.
Joe  A jest book; a stale jest; a worn-out joke.
Joe-Pye  A tall composite plant of the genus Eupatorium (E. purpureum), with purplish flowers, and whorled leaves.
Jogged  of Jog
Jogging  of Jog
Jog  To push or shake with the elbow or hand; to jostle; esp., to push or touch, in order to give notice, to excite one's attention, or to warn.
Jog  To suggest to; to notify; to remind; to call the attention of; as, to jog the memory.
Jog  To cause to jog; to drive at a jog, as a horse. See Jog, v. i.
Jog  To move by jogs or small shocks, like those of a slow trot; to move slowly, leisurely, or monotonously; -- usually with on, sometimes with over.
Jog  A slight shake; a shake or push intended to give notice or awaken attention; a push; a jolt.
Jog  A rub; a slight stop; an obstruction; hence, an irregularity in motion of from; a hitch; a break in the direction of a line or the surface of a plane.
Jogger  One who jogs.
Jogging  The act of giving a jog or jogs; traveling at a jog.
Joggled  of Joggle
Joggling  of Joggle
Joggle  To shake slightly; to push suddenly but slightly, so as to cause to shake or totter; to jostle; to jog.
Joggle  To join by means of joggles, so as to prevent sliding apart; sometimes, loosely, to dowel.
Joggle  To shake or totter; to slip out of place.
Joggle  A notch or tooth in the joining surface of any piece of building material to prevent slipping; sometimes, but incorrectly, applied to a separate piece fitted into two adjacent stones, or the like.
Johannean  Of or pertaining to John, esp. to the Apostle John or his writings.
Johannes  A Portuguese gold coin of the value of eight dollars, named from the figure of King John which it bears; -- often contracted into joe; as, a joe, or a half joe.
Johannisberger  A fine white wine produced on the estate of Schloss (or Castle) Johannisberg, on the Rhine.
John  A proper name of a man.
Johnadreams  A dreamy, idle fellow.
Johnnies  of Johnny
Johnny  A familiar diminutive of John.
Johnny  A sculpin.
Johnnycake  A kind of bread made of the meal of maize (Indian corn), mixed with water or milk, etc., and baked.
Johnsonese  The literary style of Dr. Samuel Johnson, or one formed in imitation of it; an inflated, stilted, or pompous style, affecting classical words.
Johnson  A tall perennial grass (Sorghum Halepense), valuable in the Southern and Western States for pasture and hay. The rootstocks are large and juicy and are eagerly sought by swine. Called also Cuba grass, Means grass, Evergreen millet, and Arabian millet.
Johnsonian  Pertaining to or resembling Dr. Johnson or his style; pompous; inflated.
Johnsonianism  A manner of acting or of writing peculiar to, or characteristic of, Dr. Johnson.
John's-wort  See St. John's-wort.
Joined  of Join
Joining  of Join
Join  To bring together, literally or figuratively; to place in contact; to connect; to couple; to unite; to combine; to associate; to add; to append.
Join  To associate one's self to; to be or become connected with; to league one's self with; to unite with; as, to join a party; to join the church.
Join  To unite in marriage.
Join  To enjoin upon; to command.
Join  To accept, or engage in, as a contest; as, to join encounter, battle, issue.
Join  To be contiguous, close, or in contact; to come together; to unite; to mingle; to form a union; as, the hones of the skull join; two rivers join.
Join  The line joining two points; the point common to two intersecting lines.
Joinant  Adjoining.
Joinder  The act of joining; a putting together; conjunction.
Joinder  A joining of parties as plaintiffs or defendants in a suit.
Joinder  Acceptance of an issue tendered in law or fact.
Joinder  A joining of causes of action or defense in civil suits or criminal prosecutions.
Joiner  One who, or that which, joins.
Joiner  One whose occupation is to construct articles by joining pieces of wood; a mechanic who does the woodwork (as doors, stairs, etc.) necessary for the finishing of buildings.
Joiner  A wood-working machine, for sawing, plaining, mortising, tenoning, grooving, etc.
Joinery  The art, or trade, of a joiner; the work of a joiner.
Joinhand  Writing in which letters are joined in words; -- distinguished from writing in single letters.
Joint  The place or part where two things or parts are joined or united; the union of two or more smooth or even surfaces admitting of a close-fitting or junction; junction as, a joint between two pieces of timber; a joint in a pipe.
Joint  A joining of two things or parts so as to admit of motion; an articulation, whether movable or not; a hinge; as, the knee joint; a node or joint of a stem; a ball and socket joint. See Articulation.
Joint  The part or space included between two joints, knots, nodes, or articulations; as, a joint of cane or of a grass stem; a joint of the leg.
Joint  Any one of the large pieces of meat, as cut into portions by the butcher for roasting.
Joint  A plane of fracture, or divisional plane, of a rock transverse to the stratification.
Joint  The space between the adjacent surfaces of two bodies joined and held together, as by means of cement, mortar, etc.; as, a thin joint.
Joint  The means whereby the meeting surfaces of pieces in a structure are secured together.
Joint  Joined; united; combined; concerted; as joint action.
Joint  Involving the united activity of two or more; done or produced by two or more working together.
Joint  United, joined, or sharing with another or with others; not solitary in interest or action; holding in common with an associate, or with associates; acting together; as, joint heir; joint creditor; joint debtor, etc.
Joint  Shared by, or affecting two or more; held in common; as, joint property; a joint bond.
Jointed  of Joint
Jointing  of Joint
Joint  To unite by a joint or joints; to fit together; to prepare so as to fit together; as, to joint boards.
Joint  To join; to connect; to unite; to combine.
Joint  To provide with a joint or joints; to articulate.
Joint  To separate the joints; of; to divide at the joint or joints; to disjoint; to cut up into joints, as meat.
Joint  To fit as if by joints; to coalesce as joints do; as, the stones joint, neatly.
Jointed  Having joints; articulated; full of nodes; knotty; as, a jointed doll; jointed structure.
Jointer  One who, or that which, joints.
Jointer  A plane for smoothing the surfaces of pieces which are to be accurately joined
Jointer  The longest plane used by a joiner.
Jointer  A long stationary plane, for plaining the edges of barrel staves.
Jointer  A bent piece of iron inserted to strengthen the joints of a wall.
Jointer  A tool for pointing the joints in brickwork.
Joint-fir  A genus (Ephedra) of leafless shrubs, with the stems conspicuously jointed; -- called also shrubby horsetail. There are about thirty species, of which two or three are found from Texas to California.
Jointing  The act or process of making a joint; also, the joints thus produced.
Jointless  Without a joint; rigid; stiff.
Jointly  In a joint manner; together; unitedly; in concert; not separately.
Jointress  A woman who has a jointure.
Jointure  A joining; a joint.
Jointure  An estate settled on a wife, which she is to enjoy after husband's decease, for her own life at least, in satisfaction of dower.
Jointured  of Jointure
Jointuring  of Jointure
Jointure  To settle a jointure upon.
Jointureless  Having no jointure.
Jointuress  See Jointress.
Jointweed  A slender, nearly leafless, American herb (Polygonum articulatum), with jointed spikes of small flowers.
Jointworm  The larva of a small, hymenopterous fly (Eurytoma hordei), which is found in gall-like swellings on the stalks of wheat, usually at or just above the first joint. In some parts of America it does great damage to the crop.
Joist  A piece of timber laid horizontally, or nearly so, to which the planks of the floor, or the laths or furring strips of a ceiling, are nailed; -- called, according to its position or use, binding joist, bridging joist, ceiling joist, trimming joist, etc. See Illust. of Double-framed floor, under Double, a.
Joisted  of Joist
Joisting  of Joist
Joist  To fit or furnish with joists.
Joke  Something said for the sake of exciting a laugh; something witty or sportive (commonly indicating more of hilarity or humor than jest); a jest; a witticism; as, to crack good-natured jokes.
Joke  Something not said seriously, or not actually meant; something done in sport.
Joked  of Joke
Joking  of Joke
Joke  To make merry with; to make jokes upon; to rally; to banter; as, to joke a comrade.
Joke  To do something for sport, or as a joke; to be merry in words or actions; to jest.
Joker  One who makes jokes or jests.
Joker  See Rest bower, under 2d Bower.
Jokingly  In a joking way; sportively.
Jole  Alt. of Joll
Joll  Same as Jowl.
Jolif  Joyful; merry; pleasant; jolly.
Jollification  A merrymaking; noisy festivity.
Jollily  In a jolly manner.
Jolloment  Jollity.
Jolliness  Jollity; noisy mirth.
Jollity  Noisy mirth; gayety; merriment; festivity; boisterous enjoyment.
Jolly  Full of life and mirth; jovial; joyous; merry; mirthful.
Jolly  Expressing mirth, or inspiring it; exciting mirth and gayety.
Jolly  Of fine appearance; handsome; excellent; lively; agreeable; pleasant.
Jolly-boat  A boat of medium size belonging to a ship.
Jollyhead  Jollity.
Jolted  of Jolt
Jolt  To shake with short, abrupt risings and fallings, as a carriage moving on rough ground; as, the coach jolts.
Jolt  To cause to shake with a sudden up and down motion, as in a carriage going over rough ground, or on a high-trotting horse; as, the horse jolts the rider; fast driving jolts the carriage and the passengers.
Jolt  A sudden shock or jerk; a jolting motion, as in a carriage moving over rough ground.
Jolter  One who, or that which, jolts.
Jolterhead  Alt. of Jolthead
Jolthead  A dunce; a blockhead.
Joltingly  In a jolting manner.
Jolty  That jolts; as, a jolty coach.
Jonah  The Hebrew prophet, who was cast overboard as one who endangered the ship; hence, any person whose presence is unpropitious.
Jonesian  Of or pertaining to Jones.
Jongleur  Alt. of Jongler
Jongler  In the Middle Ages, a court attendant or other person who, for hire, recited or sang verses, usually of his own composition. See Troubadour.
Jongler  A juggler; a conjuror. See Juggler.
Jonquil  Alt. of Jonquille
Jonquille  A bulbous plant of the genus Narcissus (N. Jonquilla), allied to the daffodil. It has long, rushlike leaves, and yellow or white fragrant flowers. The root has emetic properties. It is sometimes called the rush-leaved daffodil. See Illust. of Corona.
Joram  See Jorum.
Jordan  Alt. of Jorden
Jorden  A pot or vessel with a large neck, formerly used by physicians and alchemists.
Jorden  A chamber pot.
Jorum  A large drinking vessel; also, its contents.
Joseph  An outer garment worn in the 18th century; esp., a woman's riding habit, buttoned down the front.
Joseph's  A composite herb (Tragopogon pratensis), of the same genus as the salsify.
Joso  A small gudgeon.
Joss  A Chinese household divinity; a Chinese idol.
Jossa  A command to a horse, probably meaning "stand still."
Jostled  of Jostle
Jostling  of Jostle
Jostle  To run against and shake; to push out of the way; to elbow; to hustle; to disturb by crowding; to crowd against.
Jostle  To push; to crowd; to hustle.
Jostle  A conflict by collisions; a crowding or bumping together; interference.
Jostlement  Crowding; hustling.
Jot  An iota; a point; a tittle; the smallest particle. Cf. Bit, n.
Jotted  of Jot
Jotting  of Jot
Jot  To set down; to make a brief note of; -- usually followed by down.
Jotter  One who jots down memoranda.
Jotter  A memorandum book.
Jougs  An iron collar fastened to a wall or post, formerly used in Scotland as a kind of pillory. [Written also juggs.] See Juke.
Jouissance  Jollity; merriment.
Jouk  See Juke.
Joul  See Jowl.
Joule  A unit of work which is equal to 107 units of work in the C. G. S. system of units (ergs), and is practically equivalent to the energy expended in one second by an electric current of one ampere in a resistance of one ohm. One joule is approximately equal to 0.738 foot pounds.
Jounced  of Jounce
Jouncing  of Jounce
Jounce  To jolt; to shake, especially by rough riding or by driving over obstructions.
Jounce  A jolt; a shake; a hard trot.
Journal  Daily; diurnal.
Journal  A diary; an account of daily transactions and events.
Journal  A book of accounts, in which is entered a condensed and grouped statement of the daily transactions.
Journal  A daily register of the ship's course and distance, the winds, weather, incidents of the voyage, etc.
Journal  The record of daily proceedings, kept by the clerk.
Journal  A newspaper published daily; by extension, a weekly newspaper or any periodical publication, giving an account of passing events, the proceedings and memoirs of societies, etc.
Journal  That which has occurred in a day; a day's work or travel; a day's journey.
Journal  That portion of a rotating piece, as a shaft, axle, spindle, etc., which turns in a bearing or box. See Illust. of Axle box.
Journalism  The keeping of a journal or diary.
Journalism  The periodical collection and publication of current news; the business of managing, editing, or writing for, journals or newspapers; as, political journalism.
Journalist  One who keeps a journal or diary.
Journalist  The conductor of a public journal, or one whose business it to write for a public journal; an editorial or other professional writer for a periodical.
Journalistic  Pertaining to journals or to journalists; contained in, or characteristic of, the public journals; as journalistic literature or enterprise.
Journalized  of Journalize
Journalizing  of Journalize
Journalize  To enter or record in a journal or diary.
Journalize  to conduct or contribute to a public journal; to follow the profession of a journalist.
Journeys  of Journey
Journey  The travel or work of a day.
Journey  Travel or passage from one place to another; hence, figuratively, a passage through life.
Journeyed  of Journey
Journeying  of Journey
Journey  To travel from place to place; to go from home to a distance.
Journey  To traverse; to travel over or through.
Journey-bated  Worn out with journeying.
Journeyer  One who journeys.
Journeymen  of Journeyman
Journeyman  Formerly, a man hired to work by the day; now, commonly, one who has mastered a handicraft or trade; -- distinguished from apprentice and from master workman.
Journeywork  Originally, work done by the day; work done by a journeyman at his trade.
Joust  To engage in mock combat on horseback, as two knights in the lists; to tilt.
Joust  A tilting match; a mock combat on horseback between two knights in the lists or inclosed field.
Jouster  One who jousts or tilts.
Jove  The chief divinity of the ancient Romans; Jupiter.
Jove  The planet Jupiter.
Jove  The metal tin.
Jovial  Of or pertaining to the god, or the planet, Jupiter.
Jovial  Sunny; serene.
Jovial  Gay; merry; joyous; jolly; mirth-inspiring; hilarious; characterized by mirth or jollity; as, a jovial youth; a jovial company; a jovial poem.
Jovialist  One who lives a jovial life.
Joviality  The quality or state of being jovial.
Jovially  In a jovial manner; merrily; gayly.
Jovialness  Noisy mirth; joviality.
Jovialty  Joviality.
Jovian  Of or pertaining to Jove, or Jupiter (either the deity or the planet).
Jovicentric  Revolving around the planet Jupiter; appearing as viewed from Jupiter.
Jovinianist  An adherent to the doctrines of Jovinian, a monk of the fourth century, who denied the virginity of Mary, and opposed the asceticism of his time.
Jowl  The cheek; the jaw.
Jowl  To throw, dash, or knock.
Jowler  A dog with large jowls, as the beagle.
Jowter  A mounted peddler of fish; -- called also jouster.
Joy  The passion or emotion excited by the acquisition or expectation of good; pleasurable feelings or emotions caused by success, good fortune, and the like, or by a rational prospect of possessing what we love or desire; gladness; exhilaration of spirits; delight.
Joy  That which causes joy or happiness.
Joy  The sign or exhibition of joy; gayety; mirth; merriment; festivity.
Joyed  of Joy
Joying  of Joy
Joy  To rejoice; to be glad; to delight; to exult.
Joy  To give joy to; to congratulate.
Joy  To gladden; to make joyful; to exhilarate.
Joy  To enjoy.
Joyace  Enjoyment; gayety; festivity; joyfulness.
Joyancy  Joyance.
Joyful  Full of joy; having or causing joy; very glad; as, a joyful heart.
Joyless  Not having joy; not causing joy; unenjoyable.
Joyous  Glad; gay; merry; joyful; also, affording or inspiring joy; with of before the word or words expressing the cause of joy.
Joysome  Causing joyfulness.
Jub  A vessel for holding ale or wine; a jug.
Jubae  of Juba
Juba  The mane of an animal.
Juba  A loose panicle, the axis of which falls to pieces, as in certain grasses.
Jubate  Fringed with long, pendent hair.
Jube  chancel screen or rood screen.
Jube  gallery above such a screen, from which certain parts of the service were formerly read.
Jubilant  Uttering songs of triumph; shouting with joy; triumphant; exulting.
Jubilantly  In a jubilant manner.
Jubilar  Pertaining to, or having the character of, a jubilee.
Jubilate  The third Sunday after Easter; -- so called because the introit is the 66th Psalm, which, in the Latin version, begins with the words, "Jubilate Deo."
Jubilate  A name of the 100th Psalm; -- so called from its opening word in the Latin version.
Jubilate  To exult; to rejoice.
Jubilation  A triumphant shouting; rejoicing; exultation.
Jubilee  Every fiftieth year, being the year following the completion of each seventh sabbath of years, at which time all the slaves of Hebrew blood were liberated, and all lands which had been alienated during the whole period reverted to their former owners.
Jubilee  The joyful commemoration held on the fiftieth anniversary of any event; as, the jubilee of Queen Victoria's reign; the jubilee of the American Board of Missions.
Jubilee  A church solemnity or ceremony celebrated at Rome, at stated intervals, originally of one hundred years, but latterly of twenty-five; a plenary and extraordinary indulgence grated by the sovereign pontiff to the universal church. One invariable condition of granting this indulgence is the confession of sins and receiving of the eucharist.
Jubilee  A season of general joy.
Jubilee  A state of joy or exultation.
Jucundity  Pleasantness; agreeableness. See Jocundity.
Judahite  One of the tribe of Judah; a member of the kingdom of Judah; a Jew.
Judaic  Alt. of Judaical
Judaical  Of or pertaining to the Jews.
Judaically  After the Jewish manner.
Judaism  The religious doctrines and rites of the Jews as enjoined in the laws of Moses.
Judaism  Conformity to the Jewish rites and ceremonies.
Judaist  One who believes and practices Judaism.
Judaistic  Of or pertaining to Judaism.
Judaization  The act of Judaizing; a conforming to the Jewish religion or ritual.
Judaized  of Judaize
Judaizing  of Judaize
Judaize  To conform to the doctrines, observances, or methods of the Jews; to inculcate or impose Judaism.
Judaize  To impose Jewish observances or rites upon; to convert to Judaism.
Judaizer  One who conforms to or inculcates Judaism; specifically, pl. (Ch. Hist.), those Jews who accepted Christianity but still adhered to the law of Moses and worshiped in the temple at Jerusalem.
Judas  The disciple who betrayed Christ. Hence: A treacherous person; one who betrays under the semblance of friendship.
Judas  Treacherous; betraying.
Judas-colored  Red; -- from a tradition that Judas Iscariot had red hair and beard.
Juddock  See Jacksnipe.
Judean  Of or pertaining to Judea.
Judean  A native of Judea; a Jew.
Judge  A public officer who is invested with authority to hear and determine litigated causes, and to administer justice between parties in courts held for that purpose.
Judge  One who has skill, knowledge, or experience, sufficient to decide on the merits of a question, or on the quality or value of anything; one who discerns properties or relations with skill and readiness; a connoisseur; an expert; a critic.
Judge  A person appointed to decide in a/trial of skill, speed, etc., between two or more parties; an umpire; as, a judge in a horse race.
Judge  One of supreme magistrates, with both civil and military powers, who governed Israel for more than four hundred years.
Judge  The title of the seventh book of the Old Testament; the Book of Judges.
Kine  of Cow
Kaama  The hartbeest.
Kabala  See Cabala.
Kabassou  See Cabassou.
Kabob  See Cabob, n. & v. t.
Kabook  A clay ironstone found in Ceylon.
Kabyle  A Berber, as in Algiers or Tunis. See Berber.
Kadder  The jackdaw.
Kadi  Alt. of Kadiaster
Kadiaster  A Turkish judge. See Cadi.
Kafal  The Arabian name of two trees of the genus Balsamodendron, which yield a gum resin and a red aromatic wood.
Kaffir  Alt. of Kafir
Kafir  One of a race which, with the Hottentots and Bushmen, inhabit South Africa. They inhabit the country north of Cape Colony, the name being now specifically applied to the tribes living between Cape Colony and Natal; but the Zulus of Natal are true Kaffirs.
Kafir  One of a race inhabiting Kafiristan in Central Asia.
Kaffle  See Coffle.
Kafilah  See Cafila.
Kaftan  See Caftan.
Kage  A chantry chapel inclosed with lattice or screen work.
Kagu  A singular, crested, grallatorial bird (Rhinochetos jubatus), native of New Caledonia. It is gray above, paler beneath, and the feathers of the wings and tail are handsomely barred with brown, black, and gray. It is allied to the sun bittern.
Kaguan  The colugo.
Kahani  A kind of notary public, or attorney, in the Levant.
Kahau  A long-nosed monkey (Semnopithecus nasalis), native of Borneo. The general color of the body is bright chestnut, with the under parts, shoulders, and sides of the head, golden yellow, and the top of the head and upper part of the back brown. Called also proboscis monkey.
Kail  A kind of headless cabbage. Same as Kale, 1.
Kail  Any cabbage, greens, or vegetables.
Kail  A broth made with kail or other vegetables; hence, any broth; also, a dinner.
Kaimacam  Same as Caimacam.
Kain  Poultry, etc., required by the lease to be paid in kind by a tenant to his landlord.
Kainit  Salts of potassium used in the manufacture of fertilizers.
Kainite  A compound salt consisting chiefly of potassium chloride and magnesium sulphate, occurring at the Stassfurt salt mines in Prussian Saxony.
Kainozoic  See Cenozoic.
Kaique  See Caique.
Kairine  A pale buff or white crystalline alkaloid derived from quinoline, and used as an antipyretic in medicine.
Kairoline  An organic base obtained from quinoline. It is used as a febrifuge, and resembles kairine.
Kaiser  The ancient title of emperors of Germany assumed by King William of Prussia when crowned sovereign of the new German empire in 1871.
Kaka  A New Zealand parrot of the genus Nestor, especially the brown parrot (Nestor meridionalis).
Kakapo  A singular nocturnal parrot (Strigops habroptilus), native of New Zealand. It lives in holes during the day, but is active at night. It resembles an owl in its colors and general appearance. It has large wings, but can fly only a short distance. Called also owl parrot, night parrot, and night kaka.
Kakaralli  A kind of wood common in Demerara, durable in salt water, because not subject to the depredations of the sea worm and barnacle.
Kakistocracy  Government by the worst men.
Kakoxene  See Cacoxene.
Kalan  The sea otter.
Kalasie  A long-tailed monkey of Borneo (Semnopithecus rubicundus). It has a tuft of long hair on the head.
Kale  A variety of cabbage in which the leaves do not form a head, being nearly the original or wild form of the species.
Kale  See Kail, 2.
Kaleege  One of several species of large, crested, Asiatic pheasants, belonging to the genus Euplocamus, and allied to the firebacks.
Kaleidophon  Alt. of Kaleidophone
Kaleidophone  An instrument invented by Professor Wheatstone, consisting of a reflecting knob at the end of a vibrating rod or thin plate, for making visible, in the motion of a point of light reflected from the knob, the paths or curves corresponding with the musical notes produced by the vibrations.
Kaleidoscope  An instrument invented by Sir David Brewster, which contains loose fragments of colored glass, etc., and reflecting surfaces so arranged that changes of position exhibit its contents in an endless variety of beautiful colors and symmetrical forms. It has been much employed in arts of design.
Kaleidoscopic  Alt. of Kaleidoscopical
Kaleidoscopical  Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a kaleidoscope; variegated.
Kalendar  See Calendar.
Kalendarial  See Calendarial.
Kalender  See 3d Calender.
Kalends  Same as Calends.
Kali  The last and worst of the four ages of the world; -- considered to have begun B. C. 3102, and to last 432,000 years.
Kali  The black, destroying goddess; -- called also Doorga, Anna Purna.
Kali  The glasswort (Salsola Kali).
Kalif  See Caliph.
Kaliform  Formed like kali, or glasswort.
Kaligenous  Forming alkalies with oxygen, as some metals.
Kalium  Potassium; -- so called by the German chemists.
Kalki  The name of Vishnu in his tenth and last avatar.
Kalmia  A genus of North American shrubs with poisonous evergreen foliage and corymbs of showy flowers. Called also mountain laurel, ivy bush, lamb kill, calico bush, etc.
Kalmuck  See Calmucks.
Kalmuck  A kind of shaggy cloth, resembling bearskin.
Kalmuck  A coarse, dyed, cotton cloth, made in Prussia.
Kalong  A fruit bat, esp. the Indian edible fruit bat (Pteropus edulis).
Kaloyer  See Caloyer.
Kalpa  One of the Brahmanic eons, a period of 4,320,000,000 years. At the end of each Kalpa the world is annihilated.
Kalsomine  Same as Calcimine.
Kam  Crooked; awry.
Kama  The Hindoo Cupid. He is represented as a beautiful youth, with a bow of sugar cane or flowers.
Kamala  The red dusty hairs of the capsules of an East Indian tree (Mallotus Philippinensis) used for dyeing silk. It is violently emetic, and is used in the treatment of tapeworm.
Kame  A low ridge.
Kami  A title given to the celestial gods of the first mythical dynasty of Japan and extended to the demigods of the second dynasty, and then to the long line of spiritual princes still represented by the mikado.
Kamichi  A curious South American bird (Anhima, / Palamedea, cornuta), often domesticated by the natives and kept with poultry, which it defends against birds of prey. It has a long, slender, hornlike ornament on its head, and two sharp spurs on each wing. Although its beak, feet, and legs resemble those of gallinaceous birds, it is related in anatomical characters to the ducks and geese (Anseres). Called also horned screamer. The name is sometimes applied also to the chaja. See Chaja, and Screamer.
Kamptulicon  A kind of elastic floor cloth, made of India rubber, gutta-percha, linseed oil, and powdered cork.
Kampylite  A variety of mimetite or arseniate of lead in hexagonal prisms of a fine orange yellow.
Kamsin  Alt. of Khamsin
Khamsin  A hot southwesterly wind in Egypt, coming from the Sahara.
Kamtschadales  An aboriginal tribe inhabiting the southern part of Kamtschatka.
Kan  To know; to ken.
Kan  See Khan.
Kanacka  Alt. of Kanaka
Kanaka  A native of the Sandwich Islands.
Kanchil  A small chevrotain of the genus Tragulus, esp. T. pygmaeus, or T. kanchil, inhabiting Java, Sumatra, and adjacent islands; a deerlet. It is noted for its agility and cunning.
Kand  Fluor spar; -- so called by Cornish miners.
Kangaroo  Any one of numerous species of jumping marsupials of the family Macropodidae. They inhabit Australia, New Guinea, and adjacent islands, They have long and strong hind legs and a large tail, while the fore legs are comparatively short and feeble. The giant kangaroo (Macropus major) is the largest species, sometimes becoming twelve or fourteen feet in total length. The tree kangaroos, belonging to the genus Dendrolagus, live in trees; the rock kangaroos, of the genus Petrogale, inhabit rocky situations; and the brush kangaroos, of the genus Halmaturus, inhabit wooded districts. See Wallaby.
Kansas  A tribe of Indians allied to the Winnebagoes and Osages. They formerly inhabited the region which is now the State of Kansas, but were removed to the Indian Territory.
Kantian  Of or pertaining to Immanuel Kant, the German philosopher; conformed or relating to any or all of the philosophical doctrines of Immanuel Kant.
Kantian  A follower of Kant; a Kantist.
Kantianism  Alt. of Kantism
Kantism  The doctrine or theory of Kant; the Kantian philosophy.
Kantist  A disciple or follower of Kant.
Kanttry  Same as Cantred.
Kaolin  Alt. of Kaoline
Kaoline  A very pure white clay, ordinarily in the form of an impalpable powder, and used to form the paste of porcelain; China clay; porcelain clay. It is chiefly derived from the decomposition of common feldspar.
Kaolinization  The process by which feldspar is changed into kaolin.
Kaolinize  To convert into kaolin.
Kapelle  A chapel; hence, the choir or orchestra of a prince's chapel; now, a musical establishment, usually orchestral.
Kapellmeister  See Capellmeister.
Kapia  The fossil resin of the kauri tree of New Zealand.
Kapnomar  ) See Capnomor.
Karagane  A species of gray fox found in Russia.
Karaism  Doctrines of the Karaites.
Karaite  A sect of Jews who adhere closely to the letter of the Scriptures, rejecting the oral law, and allowing the Talmud no binding authority; -- opposed to the Rabbinists.
Karatas  A West Indian plant of the Pineapple family (Nidularium Karatas).
Karma  One's acts considered as fixing one's lot in the future existence. (Theos.) The doctrine of fate as the inflexible result of cause and effect; the theory of inevitable consequence.
Karmathian  One of a Mohammedan sect founded in the ninth century by Karmat.
Karn  A pile of rocks; sometimes, the solid rock. See Cairn.
Karob  The twenty-fourth part of a grain; -- a weight used by goldsmiths.
Karpholite  A fibrous mineral occurring in tufts of a straw-yellow color. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and manganese.
Karroos  of Karreo
Karreo  One of the dry table-lands of South Africa, which often rise terracelike to considerable elevations.
Karstenite  Same as Anhydrite.
Karvel  See Carvel, and Caravel.
Karyokinesis  The indirect division of cells in which, prior to division of the cell protoplasm, complicated changes take place in the nucleus, attended with movement of the nuclear fibrils; -- opposed to karyostenosis. The nucleus becomes enlarged and convoluted, and finally the threads are separated into two groups which ultimately become disconnected and constitute the daughter nuclei. Called also mitosis. See Cell development, under Cell.
Karyokinetic  Of or pertaining to karyokinesis; as, karyokinetic changes of cell division.
Karyomiton  The reticular network of fine fibers, of which the nucleus of a cell is in part composed; -- in opposition to kytomiton, or the network in the body of the cell.
Karyoplasma  The protoplasmic substance of the nucleus of a cell: nucleoplasm; -- in opposition to kytoplasma, the protoplasm of the cell.
Karyostenosis  Direct cell division (in which there is first a simple division of the nucleus, without any changes in its structure, followed by division of the protoplasm of the karyostenotic mode of nuclear division.
Kasack  Same as Cossack.
Kat  An Arabian shrub Catha edulis) the leaves of which are used as tea by the Arabs.
Katabolic  Of or pertaining to katabolism; as, katabolic processes, which give rise to substances (katastates) of decreasing complexity and increasing stability.
Katabolism  Destructive or downward metabolism; regressive metamorphism; -- opposed to anabolism. See Disassimilation.
Katastate  (Physiol.) A substance formed by a katabolic process; -- opposed to anastate. See Katabolic.
Kate  The brambling finch.
Kathetal  Making a right angle; perpendicular, as two lines or two sides of a triangle, which include a right angle.
Kathetometer  Same as Cathetometer.
Kattinumdoo  A caoutchouc like substance obtained from the milky juice of the East Indian Euphorbia Kattimundoo. It is used as a cement.
Katydid  A large, green, arboreal, orthopterous insect (Cyrtophyllus concavus) of the family Locustidae, common in the United States. The males have stridulating organs at the bases of the front wings. During the summer and autumn, in the evening, the males make a peculiar, loud, shrill sound, resembling the combination Katy-did, whence the name.
Kauri  A lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, / Dammara, australis), furnishing valuable timber and yielding one kind of dammar resin.
Kava  A species of Macropiper (M. methysticum), the long pepper, from the root of which an intoxicating beverage is made by the Polynesians, by a process of mastication; also, the beverage itself.
Kavasses  of Kavass
Kavass  An armed constable; also, a government servant or courier.
Kaw  See Caw.
Kawaka  a New Zealand tree, the Cypress cedar (Libocedrus Doniana), having a valuable, fine-grained, reddish wood.
Kawn  An inn.
Kayak  A light canoe, made of skins stretched over a frame, and usually capable of carrying but one person, who sits amidships and uses a double-bladed paddle. It is peculiar to the Eskimos and other Arctic tribes.
Kayaker  One who uses a kayak.
Kayko  The dog salmon.
Kayles  A game; ninepins.
Kaynard  A lazy or cowardly person; a rascal.
Kecked  of Keck
Kecking  of Keck
Keck  To heave or to retch, as in an effort to vomit.
Keck  An effort to vomit; queasiness.
Keckle  See Keck, v. i. & n.
Keckled  of Keckle
Keckling  of Keckle
Keckle  To wind old rope around, as a cable, to preserve its surface from being fretted, or to wind iron chains around, to defend from the friction of a rocky bottom, or from the ice.
Keckling  Old rope or iron chains wound around a cable. See Keckle, v. t.
Kecklish  Inclined to vomit; squeamish.
Kecksies  of Kecksy
Kecksy  The hollow stalk of an umbelliferous plant, such as the cow parsnip or the hemlock.
Kecky  Resembling a kecksy.
Kedged  of Kedge
Kedging  of Kedge
Kedge  To move (a vessel) by carrying out a kedge in a boat, dropping it overboard, and hauling the vessel up to it.
Kedge  A small anchor used whenever a large one can be dispensed witch. See Kedge, v. t., and Anchor, n.
Kedger  A small anchor; a kedge.
Kedlook  See Charlock.
Kee  See Kie, Ky, and Kine.
Keech  A mass or lump of fat rolled up by the butcher.
Keel  To cool; to skim or stir.
Keel  A brewer's cooling vat; a keelfat.
Keel  A longitudinal timber, or series of timbers scarfed together, extending from stem to stern along the bottom of a vessel. It is the principal timber of the vessel, and, by means of the ribs attached on each side, supports the vessel's frame. In an iron vessel, a combination of plates supplies the place of the keel of a wooden ship. See Illust. of Keelson.
Keel  Fig.: The whole ship.
Keel  A barge or lighter, used on the Type for carrying coal from Newcastle; also, a barge load of coal, twenty-one tons, four cwt.
Keel  The two lowest petals of the corolla of a papilionaceous flower, united and inclosing the stamens and pistil; a carina. See Carina.
Keel  A projecting ridge along the middle of a flat or curved surface.
Keeled  of Keel
Keeling  of Keel
Keel  To traverse with a keel; to navigate.
Keel  To turn up the keel; to show the bottom.
Keelage  The right of demanding a duty or toll for a ship entering a port; also, the duty or toll.
Keeled  Keel-shaped; having a longitudinal prominence on the back; as, a keeled leaf.
Keeled  Having a median ridge; carinate; as, a keeled scale.
Keeler  One employed in managing a Newcastle keel; -- called also keelman.
Keeler  A small or shallow tub; esp., one used for holding materials for calking ships, or one used for washing dishes, etc.
Keelfat  A cooler; a vat for cooling wort, etc.
Keelhauled  of Keelhaul
Keelhauling  of Keelhaul
Keelhaul  To haul under the keel of a ship, by ropes attached to the yardarms on each side. It was formerly practiced as a punishment in the Dutch and English navies.
Keeling  A cod.
Keelivine  A pencil of black or red lead; -- called also keelyvine pen.
Keelman  See Keeler, 1.
Keelrake  Same as Keelhaul.
Keels  Ninepins. See Kayles.
Keelson  A piece of timber in a ship laid on the middle of the floor timbers over the keel, and binding the floor timbers to the keel; in iron vessels, a structure of plates, situated like the keelson of a timber ship.
Keelvat  See Keelfat.
Keen  Sharp; having a fine edge or point; as, a keen razor, or a razor with a keen edge.
Keen  Acute of mind; sharp; penetrating; having or expressing mental acuteness; as, a man of keen understanding; a keen look; keen features.
Keen  Bitter; piercing; acrimonious; cutting; stinging; severe; as, keen satire or sarcasm.
Keen  Piercing; penetrating; cutting; sharp; -- applied to cold, wind, etc, ; as, a keen wind; the cold is very keen.
Keen  Eager; vehement; fierce; as, a keen appetite.
Keen  To sharpen; to make cold.
Keen  A prolonged wail for a deceased person. Cf. Coranach.
Keen  To wail as a keener does.
Keener  A professional mourner who wails at a funeral.
Keenly  In a keen manner.
Keenness  The quality or state of being keen.
Kept  of Keep
Keeping  of Keep
Keep  To care; to desire.
Keep  To hold; to restrain from departure or removal; not to let go of; to retain in one's power or possession; not to lose; to retain; to detain.
Keep  To cause to remain in a given situation or condition; to maintain unchanged; to hold or preserve in any state or tenor.
Keep  To have in custody; to have in some place for preservation; to take charge of.
Keep  To preserve from danger, harm, or loss; to guard.
Keep  To preserve from discovery or publicity; not to communicate, reveal, or betray, as a secret.
Keep  To attend upon; to have the care of; to tend.
Keep  To record transactions, accounts, or events in; as, to keep books, a journal, etc. ; also, to enter (as accounts, records, etc. ) in a book.
Keep  To maintain, as an establishment, institution, or the like; to conduct; to manage; as, to keep store.
Keep  To supply with necessaries of life; to entertain; as, to keep boarders.
Keep  To have in one's service; to have and maintain, as an assistant, a servant, a mistress, a horse, etc.
Keep  To have habitually in stock for sale.
Keep  To continue in, as a course or mode of action; not to intermit or fall from; to hold to; to maintain; as, to keep silence; to keep one's word; to keep possession.
Keep  To observe; to adhere to; to fulfill; not to swerve from or violate; to practice or perform, as duty; not to neglect; to be faithful to.
Keep  To confine one's self to; not to quit; to remain in; as, to keep one's house, room, bed, etc. ; hence, to haunt; to frequent.
Keep  To observe duty, as a festival, etc. ; to celebrate; to solemnize; as, to keep a feast.
Keep  To remain in any position or state; to continue; to abide; to stay; as, to keep at a distance; to keep aloft; to keep near; to keep in the house; to keep before or behind; to keep in favor; to keep out of company, or out reach.
Keep  To last; to endure; to remain unimpaired.
Keep  To reside for a time; to lodge; to dwell.
Keep  To take care; to be solicitous; to watch.
Keep  To be in session; as, school keeps to-day.
Keep  The act or office of keeping; custody; guard; care; heed; charge.
Keep  The state of being kept; hence, the resulting condition; case; as, to be in good keep.
Keep  The means or provisions by which one is kept; maintenance; support; as, the keep of a horse.
Keep  That which keeps or protects; a stronghold; a fortress; a castle; specifically, the strongest and securest part of a castle, often used as a place of residence by the lord of the castle, especially during a siege; the donjon. See Illust. of Castle.
Keep  That which is kept in charge; a charge.
Keep  A cap for retaining anything, as a journal box, in place.
Keeper  One who, or that which, keeps; one who, or that which, holds or has possession of anything.
Keeper  One who retains in custody; one who has the care of a prison and the charge of prisoners.
Keeper  One who has the care, custody, or superintendence of anything; as, the keeper of a park, a pound, of sheep, of a gate, etc. ; the keeper of attached property; hence, one who saves from harm; a defender; a preserver.
Keeper  One who remains or keeps in a place or position.
Keeper  A ring, strap, clamp, or any device for holding an object in place; as: (a) The box on a door jamb into which the bolt of a lock protrudes, when shot. (b) A ring serving to keep another ring on the finger. (c) A loop near the buckle of a strap to receive the end of the strap.
Keeper  A fruit that keeps well; as, the Roxbury Russet is a good keeper.
Keepership  The office or position of a keeper.
Keeping  A holding; restraint; custody; guard; charge; care; preservation.
Keeping  Maintenance; support; provision; feed; as, the cattle have good keeping.
Keeping  Conformity; congruity; harmony; consistency; as, these subjects are in keeping with each other.
Keeping  Harmony or correspondence between the different parts of a work of art; as, the foreground of this painting is not in keeping.
Keepsake  Anything kept, or given to be kept, for the sake of the giver; a token of friendship.
Keesh  See Kish.
Keeve  A vat or tub in which the mash is made; a mash tub.
Keeve  A bleaching vat; a kier.
Keeve  A large vat used in dressing ores.
Keeved  of Keeve
Keeving  of Keeve
Keeve  To set in a keeve, or tub, for fermentation.
Keeve  To heave; to tilt, as a cart.
Keever  See Keeve, n.
Keffe-kil  See Kiefekil.
Keg  A small cask or barrel.
Keilhau-ite  A mineral of a brownish black color, related to titanite in form. It consists chiefly of silica, titanium dioxide, lime, and yttria.
Keir  See Kier.
Keitloa  A black, two-horned, African rhinoceros (Atelodus keitloa). It has the posterior horn about as long as the anterior one, or even longer.
Keld  Having a kell or covering; webbed.
Kele  To cool.
Kell  A kiln.
Kell  A sort of pottage; kale. See Kale, 2.
Kell  The caul; that which covers or envelops as a caul; a net; a fold; a film.
Kell  The cocoon or chrysalis of an insect.
Keloid  Applied to a variety of tumor forming hard, flat, irregular excrescences upon the skin.
Keloid  A keloid tumor.
Kelotomy  See Celotomy.
Kelp  The calcined ashes of seaweed, -- formerly much used in the manufacture of glass, now used in the manufacture of iodine.
Kelp  Any large blackish seaweed.
Kelpfish  A small California food fish (Heterostichus rostratus), living among kelp. The name is also applied to species of the genus Platyglossus.
Kelpies  of Kelpy
Kelpie  Alt. of Kelpy
Kelpy  An imaginary spirit of the waters, horselike in form, vulgarly believed to warn, by preternatural noises and lights, those who are to be drowned.
Kelpware  Same as Kelp, 2.
Kelson  See Keelson.
Kelt  See Kilt, n.
Kelt  Cloth with the nap, generally of native black wool.
Kelt  A salmon after spawning.
Kelt  Same as Celt, one of Celtic race.
Kelter  Regular order or proper condition.
Keltic  Same as Celtic, a. & n.
Kembed  of Kemb
Kempt  of Kemb
Kembing  of Kemb
Kemb  To comb.
Kemelin  A tub; a brewer's vessel.
Kemp  Alt. of Kempty
Kempty  Coarse, rough hair wool or fur, injuring its quality.
Kempe  Rough; shaggy.
Kemps  The long flower stems of the ribwort plantain (Plantago Lanceolata).
Kempt  p. p. of Kemb.
Ken  A house; esp., one which is a resort for thieves.
Kenned  of Ken
Kenning  of Ken
Ken  To know; to understand; to take cognizance of.
Ken  To recognize; to descry; to discern.
Ken  To look around.
Ken  Cognizance; view; especially, reach of sight or knowledge.
Kendal  Alt. of Kendal
Kendal  A cloth colored green by dye obtained from the woad-waxen, formerly used by Flemish weavers at Kendal, in Westmoreland, England.
Kennel  The water course of a street; a little canal or channel; a gutter; also, a puddle.
Kennel  A house for a dog or for dogs, or for a pack of hounds.
Kennel  A pack of hounds, or a collection of dogs.
Kennel  The hole of a fox or other beast; a haunt.
Kenneled  of Kennel
Kennelled  of Kennel
Kennelling  of Kennel
Kennel  To lie or lodge; to dwell, as a dog or a fox.
Kennel  To put or keep in a kennel.
Kennel  See Cannel coal.
Kenning  Range of sight.
Kenning  The limit of vision at sea, being a distance of about twenty miles.
Keno  A gambling game, a variety of the game of lotto, played with balls or knobs, numbered, and cards also numbered.
Kenogenesis  Modified evolution, in which nonprimitive characters make their appearance in consequence of a secondary adaptation of the embryo to the peculiar conditions of its environment; -- distinguished from palingenesis.
Kenogenetic  Of or pertaining to kenogenesis; as, kenogenetic processes.
Kenspeckle  Having so marked an appearance as easily to be recognized.
Kent  A curved bugle, having six finger keys or stops, by means of which the performer can play upon every key in the musical scale; -- called also keyed bugle, and key bugle.
Kentle  A hundred weight; a quintal.
Kentledge  Pigs of iron used for ballast.
Kentucky  One of the United States.
Kephalin  One of a group of nitrogenous phosphorized principles, supposed by Thudichum to exist in brain tissue.
Kept  of Keep.
Keramic  Same as Ceramic.
Keramics  Same as Ceramics.
Keramographic  Suitable to be written upon; capable of being written upon, as a slate; -- said especially of a certain kind of globe.
Kerana  A kind of long trumpet, used among the Persians.
Kerargyrite  See Cerargyrite.
Kerasin  A nitrogenous substance free from phosphorus, supposed to be present in the brain; a body closely related to cerebrin.
Kerasine  Resembling horn; horny; corneous.
Keratin  A nitrogenous substance, or mixture of substances, containing sulphur in a loose state of combination, and forming the chemical basis of epidermal tissues, such as horn, hair, feathers, and the like. It is an insoluble substance, and, unlike elastin, is not dissolved even by gastric or pancreatic juice. By decomposition with sulphuric acid it yields leucin and tyrosin, as does albumin. Called also epidermose.
Keratitis  Inflammation of the cornea.
Keratode  See Keratose.
Keratogenous  Producing horn; as, the keratogenous membrane within the horny hoof of the horse.
Keratoidea  Same as Keratosa.
Keratome  An instrument for dividing the cornea in operations for cataract.
Keratonyxis  The operation of removing a cataract by thrusting a needle through the cornea of the eye, and breaking up the opaque mass.
Keratophyte  A gorgonian coral having a horny axis.
Keratosa  An order of sponges having a skeleton composed of hornlike fibers. It includes the commercial sponges.
Keratose  A tough, horny animal substance entering into the composition of the skeleton of sponges, and other invertebrates; -- called also keratode.
Keratose  Containing hornlike fibers or fibers of keratose; belonging to the Keratosa.
Keraunograph  A figure or picture impressed by lightning upon the human body or elsewhere.
Kerb  See Curb.
Kerbstone  See Curbstone.
Kercher  A kerchief.
Kerchered  Covered, or bound round, with a kercher.
Kerchiefs  of Kerchief
Kerchief  A square of fine linen worn by women as a covering for the head; hence, anything similar in form or material, worn for ornament on other parts of the person; -- mostly used in compounds; as, neckerchief; breastkerchief; and later, handkerchief.
Kerchief  A lady who wears a kerchief.
Kerchiefed  Alt. of Kerchieft
Kerchieft  Dressed; hooded; covered; wearing a kerchief.
Kerf  A notch, channel, or slit made in any material by cutting or sawing.
Kerite  A compound in which tar or asphaltum combined with animal or vegetable oils is vulcanized by sulphur, the product closely resembling rubber; -- used principally as an insulating material in telegraphy.
Kerl  See Carl.
Kermes  The dried bodies of the females of a scale insect (Coccus ilicis), allied to the cochineal insect, and found on several species of oak near the Mediterranean. They are round, about the size of a pea, contain coloring matter analogous to carmine, and are used in dyeing. They were anciently thought to be of a vegetable nature, and were used in medicine.
Kermes  A small European evergreen oak (Quercus coccifera) on which the kermes insect (Coccus ilicis) feeds.
Kermesse  See Kirmess.
Kern  A light-armed foot soldier of the ancient militia of Ireland and Scotland; -- distinguished from gallowglass, and often used as a term of contempt.
Kern  Any kind of boor or low-lived person.
Kern  An idler; a vagabond.
Kern  A part of the face of a type which projects beyond the body, or shank.
Kerned  of Kern
Kerning  of Kern
Kern  To form with a kern. See 2d Kern.
Kern  A churn.
Kern  A hand mill. See Quern.
Kern  To harden, as corn in ripening.
Kern  To take the form of kernels; to granulate.
Kerned  Having part of the face projecting beyond the body or shank; -- said of type.
Kernel  The essential part of a seed; all that is within the seed walls; the edible substance contained in the shell of a nut; hence, anything included in a shell, husk, or integument; as, the kernel of a nut. See Illust. of Endocarp.
Kernel  A single seed or grain; as, a kernel of corn.
Kernel  A small mass around which other matter is concreted; a nucleus; a concretion or hard lump in the flesh.
Kernel  The central, substantial or essential part of anything; the gist; the core; as, the kernel of an argument.
Kerneled  of Kernel
Kernelled  of Kernel
Kerneling  of Kernel
Kernelling  of Kernel
Kernel  To harden or ripen into kernels; to produce kernels.
Kerneled  Alt. of Kernelled
Kernelled  Having a kernel.
Kernelly  Full of kernels; resembling kernels; of the nature of kernels.
Kerish  Clownish; boorish.
Kerolite  Same as Cerolite.
Kerosene  An oil used for illuminating purposes, formerly obtained from the distillation of mineral wax, bituminous shale, etc., and hence called also coal oil. It is now produced in immense quantities, chiefly by the distillation and purification of petroleum. It consists chiefly of several hydrocarbons of the methane series.
Kers  Alt. of Kerse
Kerse  A cress.
Kerseys  of Kersey
Kersey  A kind of coarse, woolen cloth, usually ribbed, woven from wool of long staple.
Kerseymere  See Cassimere.
Kerseynette  See Cassinette.
Kerve  To carve.
Kerver  A carver.
Kesar  See Kaiser.
Keslop  The stomach of a calf, prepared for rennet.
Kess  To kiss.
Kest  of Cast.
Kestrel  A small, slender European hawk (Falco alaudarius), allied to the sparrow hawk. Its color is reddish fawn, streaked and spotted with white and black. Also called windhover and stannel. The name is also applied to other allied species.
Ket  Carrion; any filth.
Ketch  An almost obsolete form of vessel, with a mainmast and a mizzenmast, -- usually from one hundred to two hundred and fifty tons burden.
Ketch  A hangman. See Jack Ketch.
Ketch  To catch.
Ketchup  A sauce. See Catchup.
Ketine  One of a series of organic bases obtained by the reduction of certain isonitroso compounds of the ketones. In general they are unstable oily substances having a pungent aromatic odor.
Ketmie  The name of certain African species of Hibiscus, cultivated for the acid of their mucilage.
Ketol  One of a series of series of complex nitrogenous substances, represented by methyl ketol and related to indol.
Ketone  One of a large class of organic substances resembling the aldehydes, obtained by the distillation of certain salts of organic acids and consisting of carbonyl (CO) united with two hydrocarbon radicals. In general the ketones are colorless volatile liquids having a pungent ethereal odor.
Ketonic  Pertaining to, or derived from, a ketone; as, a ketonic acid.
Kettle  A metallic vessel, with a wide mouth, often without a cover, used for heating and boiling water or other liguids.
Kettledrum  A drum made of thin copper in the form of a hemispherical kettle, with parchment stretched over the mouth of it.
Kettledrum  An informal social party at which a light collation is offered, held in the afternoon or early evening. Cf. Drum, n., 4 and 5.
Kettledrummer  One who plays on a kettledrum.
Keuper  The upper division of the European Triassic. See Chart of Geology.
Kevel  A strong cleat to which large ropes are belayed.
Kevel  A stone mason's hammer.
Kevel  Alt. of Kevin
Kevin  The gazelle.
Kever  i. To cover.
Keverchief  A kerchief.
Kex  A weed; a kecksy.
Kex  A dry husk or covering.
Key  An instrument by means of which the bolt of a lock is shot or drawn; usually, a removable metal instrument fitted to the mechanism of a particular lock and operated by turning in its place.
Key  An instrument which is turned like a key in fastening or adjusting any mechanism; as, a watch key; a bed key, etc.
Key  That part of an instrument or machine which serves as the means of operating it; as, a telegraph key; the keys of a pianoforte, or of a typewriter.
Key  A position or condition which affords entrance, control, pr possession, etc.; as, the key of a line of defense; the key of a country; the key of a political situation. Hence, that which serves to unlock, open, discover, or solve something unknown or difficult; as, the key to a riddle; the key to a problem.
Key  That part of a mechanism which serves to lock up, make fast, or adjust to position.
Key  A piece of wood used as a wedge.
Key  The last board of a floor when laid down.
Key  A keystone.
Key  That part of the plastering which is forced through between the laths and holds the rest in place.
Key  A wedge to unite two or more pieces, or adjust their relative position; a cotter; a forelock.
Key  A bar, pin or wedge, to secure a crank, pulley, coupling, etc., upon a shaft, and prevent relative turning; sometimes holding by friction alone, but more frequently by its resistance to shearing, being usually embedded partly in the shaft and partly in the crank, pulley, etc.
Key  An indehiscent, one-seeded fruit furnished with a wing, as the fruit of the ash and maple; a samara; -- called also key fruit.
Key  A family of tones whose regular members are called diatonic tones, and named key tone (or tonic) or one (or eight), mediant or three, dominant or five, subdominant or four, submediant or six, supertonic or two, and subtonic or seven. Chromatic tones are temporary members of a key, under such names as " sharp four," "flat seven," etc. Scales and tunes of every variety are made from the tones of a key.
Key  The fundamental tone of a movement to which its modulations are referred, and with which it generally begins and ends; keynote.
Key  Fig: The general pitch or tone of a sentence or utterance.
Keved  of Key
Keying  of Key
Key  To fasten or secure firmly; to fasten or tighten with keys or wedges.
Keyage  Wharfage; quayage.
Keyboard  The whole arrangement, or one range, of the keys of an organ, typewriter, etc.
Key-cold  Cold as a metallic key; lifeless.
Keyed  Furnished with keys; as, a keyed instrument; also, set to a key, as a tune.
Keyhole  A hole or apertupe in a door or lock, for receiving a key.
Keyhole  A hole or excavation in beams intended to be joined together, to receive the key which fastens them.
Keyhole  a mortise for a key or cotter.
Keynote  The tonic or first tone of the scale in which a piece or passage is written; the fundamental tone of the chord, to which all the modulations of the piece are referred; -- called also key tone.
Keynote  The fundamental fact or idea; that which gives the key; as, the keynote of a policy or a sermon.
Keyseat  To form a key seat, as by cutting. See Key seat, under Key.
Keystone  The central or topmost stone of an arch. This in some styles is made different in size from the other voussoirs, or projects, or is decorated with carving. See Illust. of Arch.
Key  See Keynote.
Keyway  See Key way, under Key.
Khaliff  See Caliph.
Khamsin  Same as Kamsin.
Khan  A king; a prince; a chief; a governor; -- so called among the Tartars, Turks, and Persians, and in countries now or formerly governed by them.
Khan  An Eastern inn or caravansary.
Khanate  Dominion or jurisdiction of a khan.
Khaya  A lofty West African tree (Khaya Senegalensis), related to the mahogany, which it resembles in the quality of the wood. The bark is used as a febrifuge.
Khedive  A governor or viceroy; -- a title granted in 1867 by the sultan of Turkey to the ruler of Egypt.
Khenna  See Henna.
Kholah  The Indian jackal.
Kholsun  The dhole.
Khutbah  An address or public prayer read from the steps of the pulpit in Mohammedan mosques, offering glory to God, praising Mohammed and his descendants, and the ruling princes.
Kiabooca  See Kyaboca wood.
Kiang  The dziggetai.
Kibble  To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats.
Kibble  A large iron bucket used in Cornwall and Wales for raising ore out of mines.
Kibblings  Portions of small fish used for bait on the banks of Newfoundland.
Kibe  A chap or crack in the flesh occasioned by cold; an ulcerated chilblain.
Kibed  Chapped; cracked with cold; affected with chilblains; as kibed heels.
Kibitkas  of Kibitka
Kibitka  A tent used by the Kirghiz Tartars.
Kibitka  A rude kind of Russian vehicle, on wheels or on runners, sometimes covered with cloth or leather, and often used as a movable habitation.
Kiblah  See Keblah.
Kiby  Affected with kibes.
Kichil  See Kechil.
Kicred  of Kick
Kicking  of Kick
Kick  To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horse kicks a groom; a man kicks a dog.
Kick  To thrust out the foot or feet with violence; to strike out with the foot or feet, as in defense or in bad temper; esp., to strike backward, as a horse does, or to have a habit of doing so. Hence, figuratively: To show ugly resistance, opposition, or hostility; to spurn.
Kick  To recoil; -- said of a musket, cannon, etc.
Kick  A blow with the foot or feet; a striking or thrust with the foot.
Kick  The projection on the tang of the blade of a pocket knife, which prevents the edge of the blade from striking the spring. See Illust. of Pocketknife.
Kick  A projection in a mold, to form a depression in the surface of the brick.
Kick  The recoil of a musket or other firearm, when discharged.
Kickable  Capable or deserving of being kicked.
Kickapoos  A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region of Northern Illinois, allied in language to the Sacs and Foxes.
Kicker  One who, or that which, kicks.
Kickshaw  See Kickshaws, the correct singular.
Kickshawses  of Kickshaws
Kickshaws  Something fantastical; any trifling, trumpery thing; a toy.
Kickshaws  A fancy dish; a titbit; a delicacy.
Kickshoe  A kickshaws.
Kicksy-wicksy  Alt. of Kicky-wisky
Kicky-wisky  That which is restless and uneasy.
Kicksy-wicksy  Fantastic; restless; as, kicksy-wicksy flames.
Kickup  The water thrush or accentor.
Kid  A young goat.
Kid  A young child or infant; hence, a simple person, easily imposed on.
Kid  A kind of leather made of the skin of the young goat, or of the skin of rats, etc.
Kid  Gloves made of kid.
Kid  A small wooden mess tub; -- a name given by sailors to one in which they receive their food.
Kidded  of Kid
Kidding  of Kid
Kid  To bring forth a young goat.
Kid  A fagot; a bundle of heath and furze.
Kid  of Kythe.
Kid  See Kiddy, v. t.
Kidde  of Kythe.
Kidderminster  A kind of ingrain carpeting, named from the English town where formerly most of it was manufactured.
Kiddier  A huckster; a cadger.
Kiddle  A kind of basketwork wear in a river, for catching fish.
Kiddow  The guillemot.
Kiddy  To deceive; to outwit; to hoax.
Kiddy  A young fellow; formerly, a low thief.
Kiddyish  Frolicsome; sportive.
Kidfox  A young fox.
Kidling  A young kid.
Kidnaped  of Kidnap
Kidnapped  of Kidnap
Kidnaping  of Kidnap
Kidnapping  of Kidnap
Kidnap  To take (any one) by force or fear, and against one's will, with intent to carry to another place.
Kidnaper  Alt. of Kidnapper
Kidnapper  One who steals or forcibly carries away a human being; a manstealer.
Kidneys  of Kidney
Kidney  A glandular organ which excretes urea and other waste products from the animal body; a urinary gland.
Kidney  Habit; disposition; sort; kind.
Kidney  A waiter.
Kidney-form  Alt. of Kidney-shaped
Kidney-shaped  Having the form or shape of a kidney; reniform; as, a kidney-shaped leaf.
Kidneywort  A kind of saxifrage (Saxifrage stellaris).
Kidneywort  The navelwort.
Kie  Kine; cows.
Kiefekil  A species of clay; meerschaum.
Kier  A large tub or vat in which goods are subjected to the action of hot lye or bleaching liquor; -- also called keeve.
Kieselguhr  Siliceous earth; specifically, porous infusorial earth, used as an absorbent of nitroglycerin in the manufacture of dynamite.
Kieserite  Hydrous sulphate of magnesia found at the salt mines of Stassfurt, Prussian Saxony.
Kieve  See Keeve, n.
Kike  To gaze; to stare.
Kike  To kick.
Kilderkin  A small barrel; an old liquid measure containing eighteen English beer gallons, or nearly twenty-two gallons, United States measure.
Kill  A kiln.
Kill  A channel or arm of the sea; a river; a stream; as, the channel between Staten Island and Bergen Neck is the Kill van Kull, or the Kills; -- used also in composition; as, Schuylkill, Catskill, etc.
Killed  of Kill
Killing  of Kill
Kill  To deprive of life, animal or vegetable, in any manner or by any means; to render inanimate; to put to death; to slay.
Kill  To destroy; to ruin; as, to kill one's chances; to kill the sale of a book.
Kill  To cause to cease; to quell; to calm; to still; as, in seamen's language, a shower of rain kills the wind.
Kill  To destroy the effect of; to counteract; to neutralize; as, alkali kills acid.
Killdee  Alt. of Killdeer
Killdeer  A small American plover (Aegialitis vocifera).
Killer  One who deprives of life; one who, or that which, kills.
Killer  A voracious, toothed whale of the genus Orca, of which several species are known.
Killesse  A gutter, groove, or channel.
Killesse  A hipped roof.
Killifish  Any one of several small American cyprinodont fishes of the genus Fundulus and allied genera. They live equally well in fresh and brackish water, or even in the sea. They are usually striped or barred with black. Called also minnow, and brook fish. See Minnow.
Killigrew  The Cornish chough. See under Chough.
Killikinick  See Kinnikinic.
Killing  Literally, that kills; having power to kill; fatal; in a colloquial sense, conquering; captivating; irresistible.
Kill-joy  One who causes gloom or grief; a dispiriting person.
Killock  A small anchor; also, a kind of anchor formed by a stone inclosed by pieces of wood fastened together.
Killow  An earth of a blackish or deep blue color.
Kiln  A large stove or oven; a furnace of brick or stone, or a heated chamber, for the purpose of hardening, burning, or drying anything; as, a kiln for baking or hardening earthen vessels; a kiln for drying grain, meal, lumber, etc.; a kiln for calcining limestone.
Kiln  A furnace for burning bricks; a brickkiln.
Kiln-dry  To dry in a kiln; as, to kiln-dry meal or grain.
Kilnhole  The mouth or opening of an oven or kiln.
Kilos  of Kilo
Kilo  An abbreviation of Kilogram.
Kilogram  Alt. of Kilogramme
Kilogramme  A measure of weight, being a thousand grams, equal to 2.2046 pounds avoirdupois (15,432.34 grains). It is equal to the weight of a cubic decimeter of distilled water at the temperature of maximum density, or 39 Fahrenheit.
Kilogrammeter  Alt. of Kilogrammetre
Kilogrammetre  A measure of energy or work done, being the amount expended in raising one kilogram through the height of one meter, in the latitude of Paris.
Kiloliter  Alt. of Kilolitre
Kilolitre  A measure of capacity equal to a cubic meter, or a thousand liters. It is equivalent to 35.315 cubic feet, and to 220.04 imperial gallons, or 264.18 American gallons of 321 cubic inches.
Kilometer  Alt. of Kilometre
Kilometre  A measure of length, being a thousand meters. It is equal to 3,280.8 feet, or 62137 of a mile.
Kilostere  A cubic measure containing 1000 cubic meters, and equivalent to 35,315 cubic feet.
Kilowatt  One thousand watts.
Kilt  p. p. from Kill.
Kilt  A kind of short petticoat, reaching from the waist to the knees, worn in the Highlands of Scotland by men, and in the Lowlands by young boys; a filibeg.
Kilted  of Kilt
Kilting  of Kilt
Kilt  To tuck up; to truss up, as the clothes.
Kilted  Having on a kilt.
Kilted  Plaited after the manner of kilting.
Kilted  Tucked or fastened up; -- said of petticoats, etc.
Kilter  See Kelter.
Kilting  A perpendicular arrangement of flat, single plaits, each plait being folded so as to cover half the breadth of the preceding one.
Kimbo  Crooked; arched; bent.
Kimmerian  See Cimmerian.
Kimnel  A tub. See Kemelin.
Kimry  See Cymry.
kin  A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin.
Kin  A primitive Chinese instrument of the cittern kind, with from five to twenty-five silken strings.
Kin  Relationship, consanguinity, or affinity; connection by birth or marriage; kindred; near connection or alliance, as of those having common descent.
Kin  Relatives; persons of the same family or race.
Kin  Of the same nature or kind; kinder.
Kinaesodic  Kinesodic.
Kinaesthesis  The perception attendant upon the movements of the muscles.
Kinate  See Quinate.
Kincob  India silk brocaded with flowers in silver or gold.
Kincob  Of the nature of kincob; brocaded.
Kind  Characteristic of the species; belonging to one's nature; natural; native.
Kind  Having feelings befitting our common nature; congenial; sympathetic; as, a kind man; a kind heart.
Kind  Showing tenderness or goodness; disposed to do good and confer happiness; averse to hurting or paining; benevolent; benignant; gracious.
Kind  Proceeding from, or characterized by, goodness, gentleness, or benevolence; as, a kind act.
Kind  Gentle; tractable; easily governed; as, a horse kind in harness.
Kind  Nature; natural instinct or disposition.
Kind  Race; genus; species; generic class; as, in mankind or humankind.
Kind  Nature; style; character; sort; fashion; manner; variety; description; class; as, there are several kinds of eloquence, of style, and of music; many kinds of government; various kinds of soil, etc.
Kind  To beget.
Kindergarten  A school for young children, conducted on the theory that education should be begun by gratifying and cultivating the normal aptitude for exercise, play, observation, imitation, and construction; -- a name given by Friedrich Froebel, a German educator, who introduced this method of training, in rooms opening on a garden.
Kindergartner  One who teaches in a kindergarten.
Kind-hearted  Having kindness of nature; sympathetic; characterized by a humane disposition; as, a kind-hearted landlord.
Kind-heartedness  The state or quality of being kind-hearted; benevolence.
Kindle  To bring forth young.
Kindled  of Kindle
Kindling  of Kindle
Kindle  To set on fire; to cause to burn with flame; to ignite; to cause to begin burning; to start; to light; as, to kindle a match, or shavings.
Kindle  Fig.: To inflame, as the passions; to rouse; to provoke; to excite to action; to heat; to fire; to animate; to incite; as, to kindle anger or wrath; to kindle the flame of love, or love into a flame.
Kindle  To take fire; to begin to burn with flame; to start as a flame.
Kindle  Fig.: To begin to be excited; to grow warm or animated; to be roused or exasperated.
Kindler  One who, or that which, kindles, stirs up, or sets on fire.
Kindless  Destitute of kindness; unnatural.
Kindliness  Natural inclination; natural course.
Kindliness  The quality or state of being kindly; benignity; benevolence; gentleness; tenderness; as, kindliness of disposition, of treatment, or of words.
Kindliness  Softness; mildness; propitiousness; as, kindliness of weather, or of a season.
Kinding  The of causing to burn, or of exciting or inflaming the passions.
Kinding  Materials, easily lighted, for starting a fire.
Kindly  According to the kind or nature; natural.
Kindly  Humane; congenial; sympathetic; hence, disposed to do good to; benevolent; gracious; kind; helpful; as, kindly affections, words, acts, etc.
Kindly  Favorable; mild; gentle; auspicious; beneficent.
Kindly  Naturally; fitly.
Kindly  In a kind manner; congenially; with good will; with a disposition to make others happy, or to oblige.
Kindness  The state or quality of being kind, in any of its various senses; manifestation of kind feeling or disposition beneficence.
Kindness  A kind act; an act of good will; as, to do a great kindness.
Kindred  Relationship by birth or marriage; consanguinity; affinity; kin.
Kindred  Relatives by blood or marriage, more properly the former; relations; persons related to each other.
Kindred  Related; congenial; of the like nature or properties; as, kindred souls; kindred skies; kindred propositions.
Kine  Cows.
Kinematic  Alt. of Kinematical
Kinematical  Of or pertaining to kinematics.
Kinematics  The science which treats of motions considered in themselves, or apart from their causes; the comparison and relation of motions.
Kinepox  See Cowpox.
Kinepox  See Kinetoscope.
Kinesiatrics  A mode of treating disease by appropriate muscular movements; -- also termed kinesitherapy, kinesipathy, lingism, and the movement cure.
Kinesipathy  See Kinesiatrics.
Kinesitherapy  See Kinesiatrics.
Kinesipathy  See Kinesiatrics.
Kinesodic  Conveying motion; as; kinesodic substance; -- applied esp. to the spinal cord, because it is capable of conveying doth voluntary and reflex motor impulses, without itself being affected by motor impulses applied to it directly.
Kinetic  Moving or causing motion; motory; active, as opposed to latent.
Kinetics  See Dynamics.
Kinetogenesis  An instrument for producing curves by the combination of circular movements; -- called also kinescope.
King  A Chinese musical instrument, consisting of resonant stones or metal plates, arranged according to their tones in a frame of wood, and struck with a hammer.
King  A chief ruler; a sovereign; one invested with supreme authority over a nation, country, or tribe, usually by hereditary succession; a monarch; a prince.
King  One who, or that which, holds a supreme position or rank; a chief among competitors; as, a railroad king; a money king; the king of the lobby; the king of beasts.
King  A playing card having the picture of a king; as, the king of diamonds.
King  The chief piece in the game of chess.
King  A crowned man in the game of draughts.
King  The title of two historical books in the Old Testament.
Kinged  of King
Kinging  of King
King  To supply with a king; to make a king of; to raise to royalty.
Kingbird  A small American bird (Tyrannus tyrannus, or T. Carolinensis), noted for its courage in attacking larger birds, even hawks and eagles, especially when they approach its nest in the breeding season. It is a typical tyrant flycatcher, taking various insects upon the wing. It is dark ash above, and blackish on the head and tail. The quills and wing coverts are whitish at the edges. It is white beneath, with a white terminal band on the tail. The feathers on the head of the adults show a bright orange basal spot when erected. Called also bee bird, and bee martin. Several Southern and Western species of Tyrannus are also called king birds.
Kingbird  The king tody. See under King.
Kingbolt  A vertical iron bolt, by which the forward axle and wheels of a vehicle or the trucks of a railroad car are connected with the other parts.
King  A variety of small pet dogs, having, drooping ears, a high, dome-shaped forehead, pug nose, large, prominent eyes, and long, wavy hair. The color is usually black and tan.
Kingcraft  The craft of kings; the art of governing as a sovereign; royal policy.
Kingcup  The common buttercup.
Kingdom  The rank, quality, state, or attributes of a king; royal authority; sovereign power; rule; dominion; monarchy.
Kingdom  The territory or country subject to a king or queen; the dominion of a monarch; the sphere in which one is king or has control.
Kingdom  An extensive scientific division distinguished by leading or ruling characteristics; a principal division; a department; as, the mineral kingdom.
Kingdomed  Having a kingdom or the dignity of a king; like a kingdom.
Kingfish  An American marine food fish of the genus Menticirrus, especially M. saxatilis, or M. nebulosos, of the Atlantic coast; -- called also whiting, surf whiting, and barb.
Kingfish  The opah.
Kingfish  The common cero; also, the spotted cero. See Cero.
Kingfish  The queenfish.
Kingfisher  Any one of numerous species of birds constituting the family Alcedinidae. Most of them feed upon fishes which they capture by diving and seizing then with the beak; others feed only upon reptiles, insects, etc. About one hundred and fifty species are known. They are found in nearly all parts of the world, but are particularly abundant in the East Indies.
Kinghood  The state of being a king; the attributes of a king; kingship.
Kingless  Having no king.
Kinglet  A little king; a weak or insignificant king.
Kinglet  Any one of several species of small singing birds of the genus Regulus and family Sylviidae.
Kinglihood  King-liness.
Kingliness  The state or quality of being kingly.
Kingling  Same as Kinglet, 1.
Kingly  Belonging to, suitable to, or becoming, a king; characteristic of, resembling, a king; directed or administered by a king; monarchical; royal; sovereign; regal; august; noble; grand.
Kingly  In a kingly or kinglike manner.
King-post  A member of a common form of truss, as a roof truss. It is strictly a tie, intended to prevent the sagging of the tiebeam in the middle. If there are struts, supporting the main rafters, they often bear upon the foot of the king-post. Called also crown-post.
King's  Formerly, the highest court of common law in England; -- so called because the king used to sit there in person. It consisted of a chief justice and four puisne, or junior, justices. During the reign of a queen it was called the Queen's Bench. Its jurisdiction was transferred by the judicature acts of 1873 and 1875 to the high court of justice created by that legislation.
Kingship  The state, office, or dignity of a king; royalty.
Kingston  Alt. of Kingstone
Kingstone  The black angel fish. See Angel fish, under Angel.
Kingston  An alloy of tin, copper, and mercury, sometimes used for the bearings and packings of machinery.
Kingston  A conical valve, opening outward, to close the mouth of a pipe which passes through the side of a vessel below the water line.
Kingtruss  A truss, framed with a king-post; -- used in roofs, bridges, etc.
Kinic  See Quinic.
Kink  A twist or loop in a rope or thread, caused by a spontaneous doubling or winding upon itself; a close loop or curl; a doubling in a cord.
Kink  An unreasonable notion; a crotchet; a whim; a caprice.
Kinked  of Kink
Kinking  of Kink
Kink  To wind into a kink; to knot or twist spontaneously upon itself, as a rope or thread.
Kink  A fit of coughing; also, a convulsive fit of laughter.
Kinkajou  A nocturnal carnivorous mammal (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) of South America, about as large as a full-grown cat. It has a prehensile tail and lives in trees. It is the only representative of a distinct family (Cercoleptidae) allied to the raccoons. Called also potto, and honey bear.
Kinkhaust  Whooping cough.
Kinkle  Same as 3d Kink.
Kinky  Full of kinks; liable to kink or curl; as, kinky hair.
Kinky  Queer; eccentric; crotchety.
Kinnikinic  Prepared leaves or bark of certain plants; -- used by the Indians of the Northwest for smoking, either mixed with tobacco or as a substitute for it. Also, a plant so used, as the osier cornel (Cornus stolonijra), and the bearberry (Arctostaphylus Uva-ursi).
Kino  The dark red dried juice of certain plants, used variously in tanning, in dyeing, and as an astringent in medicine.
Kinology  That branch of physics which treats of the laws of motion, or of moving bodies.
Kinone  See Quinone.
Kinoyl  See Quinoyl.
Kinrede  Kindred.
Kinsfolk  Relatives; kindred; kin; persons of the same family or closely or closely related families.
Kinship  Family relationship.
Kinsmen  of Kinsman
Kinsman  A man of the same race or family; one related by blood.
Kinsmanship  Kinship.
Kinswomen  of Kinswoman
Kinswoman  A female relative.
Kintlidge  See Kentledge.
Kiosk  A Turkish open summer house or pavilion, supported by pillars.
Kioways  A tribe of Indians distantly related to the Shoshones. They formerly inhabited the region about the head waters of the North Platte.
Kip  The hide of a young or small beef creature, or leather made from it; kipskin.
Kipe  An osier basket used for catching fish.
Kipper  A salmon after spawning.
Kipper  A salmon split open, salted, and dried or smoked; -- so called because salmon after spawning were usually so cured, not being good when fresh.
Kippered  of Kipper
Kippering  of Kipper
Kipper  To cure, by splitting, salting, and smoking.
Kipper  Amorous; also, lively; light-footed; nimble; gay; sprightly.
Kippernut  A name given to earthnuts of several kinds.
Kipskin  Leather prepared from the skin of young or small cattle, intermediate in grade between calfskin and cowhide.
Kirk  A church or the church, in the various senses of the word; esp., the Church of Scotland as distinguished from other reformed churches, or from the Roman Catholic Church.
Kirked  Turned upward; bent.
Kirkmen  of Kirkman
Kirkman  A clergyman or officer in a kirk.
Kirkman  A member of the Church of Scotland, as distinguished from a member of another communion.
Kirkyard  A churchyard.
Kirmess  In Europe, particularly in Belgium and Holland, and outdoor festival and fair; in the United States, generally an indoor entertainment and fair combined.
Kirschwasser  An alcoholic liquor, obtained by distilling the fermented juice of the small black cherry.
Kirsome  Christian; christened.
Kirtle  A garment varying in form and use at different times, and worn doth by men and women.
Kirtled  Wearing a kirtle.
Kirumbo  A bird of Madagascar (Leptosomus discolor), the only living type of a family allied to the rollers. It has a pair of loral plumes. The male is glossy green above, with metallic reflections; the female is spotted with brown and black.
Kish  A workman's name for the graphite which forms incidentally in iron smelting.
Kismet  Destiny; fate.
Kissed  of Kiss
Kissing  of Kiss
Kiss  To salute with the lips, as a mark of affection, reverence, submission, forgiveness, etc.
Kiss  To touch gently, as if fondly or caressingly.
Kiss  To make or give salutation with the lips in token of love, respect, etc.; as, kiss and make friends.
Kiss  To meet; to come in contact; to touch fondly.
Kiss  A salutation with the lips, as a token of affection, respect, etc.; as, a parting kiss; a kiss of reconciliation.
Kiss  A small piece of confectionery.
Kisser  One who kisses.
Kissingcrust  The portion of the upper crust of a loaf which has touched another loaf in baking.
Kist  A chest; hence, a coffin.
Kist  A stated payment, especially a payment of rent for land; hence, the time for such payment.
Kistvaen  A Celtic monument, commonly known as a dolmen.
Kitte  of Kit
Kit  To cut.
Kit  A kitten.
Kit  A small violin.
Kit  A large bottle.
Kit  A wooden tub or pail, smaller at the top than at the bottom; as, a kit of butter, or of mackerel.
Kit  straw or rush basket for fish; also, any kind of basket.
Kit  A box for working implements; hence, a working outfit, as of a workman, a soldier, and the like.
Kit  A group of separate parts, things, or individuals; -- used with whole, and generally contemptuously; as, the whole kit of them.
Kitcat  Designating a club in London, to which Addison and Steele belonged; -- so called from Christopher Cat, a pastry cook, who served the club with mutton pies.
Kitcat  Designating a canvas used for portraits of a peculiar size, viz., twenty-right or twenty-nine inches by thirty-six; -- so called because that size was adopted by Sir Godfrey Kneller for the portraits he painted of the members of the Kitcat Club.
Kitcat  A game played by striking with a stick small piece of wood, called a cat, shaped like two cones united at their bases; tipcat.
Kitchen  A cookroom; the room of a house appropriated to cookery.
Kitchen  A utensil for roasting meat; as, a tin kitchen.
Kitchen  To furnish food to; to entertain with the fare of the kitchen.
Kitchener  A kitchen servant; a cook.
Kitchenmaid  A woman employed in the kitchen.
Kitchen  Relics of neolithic man found on the coast of Denmark, consisting of shell mounds, some of which are ten feet high, one thousand feet long, and two hundred feet wide. The name is applied also to similar mounds found on the American coast from Canada to Florida, made by the North American Indians.
Kitchen-ry  The body of servants employed in the kitchen.
Kite  Any raptorial bird of the subfamily Milvinae, of which many species are known. They have long wings, adapted for soaring, and usually a forked tail.
Kite  Fig. : One who is rapacious.
Kite  A light frame of wood or other material covered with paper or cloth, for flying in the air at the end of a string.
Kite  A lofty sail, carried only when the wind is light.
Kite  A quadrilateral, one of whose diagonals is an axis of symmetry.
Kite  Fictitious commercial paper used for raising money or to sustain credit, as a check which represents no deposit in bank, or a bill of exchange not sanctioned by sale of goods; an accommodation check or bill.
Kite  The brill.
Kite  To raise money by "kites;" as, kiting transactions. See Kite, 6.
Kite  The belly.
Kiteflying  A mode of raising money, or sustaining one's credit, by the use of paper which is merely nominal; -- called also kiting.
Kiteflier  See Kite, n., 6.
Kith  Acquaintance; kindred.
Kithara  See Cithara.
Kithe  See Kythe.
Kitish  Like or relating to a kite.
Kitling  A young kitten; a whelp.
Kitte  of Kit to cut.
Kittel  See Kittle, v. t.
Kitten  A young cat.
Kittened  of Kitten
Kittening  of Kitten
Kitten  To bring forth young, as a cat; to bring forth, as kittens.
Kittenish  Resembling a kitten; playful; as, a kittenish disposition.
Kittiwake  A northern gull (Rissa tridactyla), inhabiting the coasts of Europe and America. It is white, with black tips to the wings, and has but three toes.
Kittle  To bring forth young, as a cat; to kitten; to litter.
Kittle  To tickle.
Kittle  Ticklish; not easily managed; troublesome; difficult; variable.
Kittlish  Ticklish; kittle.
Kittysol  The Chinese paper parasol.
Kive  A mash vat. See Keeve.
Kiver  To cover.
Kiver  A cover.
Kivikivies  of Kiwikiwi
Kiwikiwies  of Kiwikiwi
Kivikivi  Alt. of Kiwikiwi
Kiwikiwi  Any species of Apteryx, esp. A. australis; -- so called in imitation of its notes. Called also kiwi. See Apteryx.
Kjoekken  See Kitchen middens.
Klamaths  A collective name for the Indians of several tribes formerly living along the Klamath river, in California and Oregon, but now restricted to a reservation at Klamath Lake; -- called also Clamets and Hamati.
Kleeneboc  (Zool.) An antelope (Cerphalopus pygmaeus), found in South Africa. It is of very small size, being but one foot high at shoulder. It is remarkable for its activity, and for its mild and timid disposition. Called also guevi, and pygmy antelope.
Kleptomania  A propensity to steal, claimed to be irresistible. This does not constitute legal irresponsibility.
Kleptomaniac  A person affected with kleptomania.
Klick  See Click.
Klicket  A small postern or gate in a palisade, for the passage of sallying parties.
Klinkstone  See Clinkstone.
Klinometer  See Clinometer.
Klipdas  Alt. of Klipdachs
Klipdachs  A small mammal (Hyrax Capensis), found in South Africa. It is of about the size of a rabbit, and closely resembles the daman. Called also rock rabbit.
Klipfish  Dried cod, exported from Norway.
Klipspringer  A small, graceful South African antelope (Nanotragus oreotragus), which, like the chamois, springs from one crag to another with great agility; -- called also kainsi.
Kloof  A glen; a ravine closed at its upper end.
Klopemania  See Kleptomania.
Knabbed  of Knab
Knabbing  of Knab
Knab  To seize with the teeth; to gnaw.
Knab  To nab. See Nab, v. t.
Knabble  To bite or nibble.
Knack  To crack; to make a sharp, abrupt noise to chink.
Knack  To speak affectedly.
Knack  A petty contrivance; a toy; a plaything; a knickknack.
Knack  A readiness in performance; aptness at doing something; skill; facility; dexterity.
Knack  Something performed, or to be done, requiring aptness and dexterity; a trick; a device.
Knacker  One who makes knickknacks, toys, etc.
Knacker  One of two or more pieces of bone or wood held loosely between the fingers, and struck together by moving the hand; -- called also clapper.
Knacker  a harness maker.
Knacker  One who slaughters worn-out horses and sells their flesh for dog's meat.
Knackish  Trickish; artful.
Knack-kneed  See Knock-kneed.
Knacky  Having a knack; cunning; crafty; trickish.
Knag  A knot in wood; a protuberance.
Knag  A wooden peg for hanging things on.
Knag  The prong of an antler.
Knag  The rugged top of a hill.
Knagged  Full of knots; knaggy.
Knaggy  Knotty; rough; figuratively, rough in temper.
Knap  A protuberance; a swelling; a knob; a button; hence, rising ground; a summit. See Knob, and Knop.
Knapped  of Knap
Knapping  of Knap
Knap  To bite; to bite off; to break short.
Knap  To strike smartly; to rap; to snap.
Knap  To make a sound of snapping.
Knap  A sharp blow or slap.
Knapbottle  The bladder campion (Silene inflata).
Knappish  Snappish; peevish.
Knapple  To break off with an abrupt, sharp noise; to bite; to nibble.
Knappy  Having knaps; full of protuberances or humps; knobby.
Knapsack  A case of canvas or leather, for carrying on the back a soldier's necessaries, or the clothing, etc., of a traveler.
Knapweed  The black centaury (Centaurea nigra); -- so called from the knoblike heads of flowers. Called also bullweed.
Knar  See Gnar.
Knarl  A knot in wood. See Gnarl.
Knarled  Knotted. See Gnarled.
Knarred  Knotty; gnarled.
Knarry  Knotty; gnarled.
Knave  A boy; especially, a boy servant.
Knave  Any male servant; a menial.
Knave  A tricky, deceitful fellow; a dishonest person; a rogue; a villain.
Knave  A playing card marked with the figure of a servant or soldier; a jack.
Knaveries  of Knavery
Knavery  The practices of a knave; petty villainy; fraud; trickery; a knavish action.
Knavery  Roguish or mischievous tricks.
Knaveship  A small due, in meal, established by usage, which is paid to the under miller.
Knavess  A knavish woman.
Knavish  Like or characteristic of a knave; given to knavery; trickish; fraudulent; dishonest; villainous; as, a knavish fellow, or a knavish trick.
Knavish  Mischievous; roguish; waggish.
Knavishly  In a knavish manner; dishonestly; fraudulently.
Knavishly  Mischievously; waggishly; roguishly.
KNavishness  The quality or state of being knavish; knavery; dishonesty.
Knaw  See Gnaw.
Knawel  A low, spreading weed (Scleranthus annuus), common in sandy soil.
Kneaded  of Knead
Kneading  of Knead
Knead  To work and press into a mass, usually with the hands; esp., to work, as by repeated pressure with the knuckles, into a well mixed mass, as the materials of bread, cake, etc.; as, to knead dough.
Knead  Fig.: To treat or form as by kneading; to beat.
Kneadable  That may be kneaded; capable of being worked into a mass.
Kneader  One who kneads.
Kneadingly  In the manner of one kneading.
Knebelite  A mineral of a gray, red, brown, or green color, and glistening luster. It is a silicate of iron and manganese.
Kneck  The twisting of a rope or cable, as it is running out.
Knee  In man, the joint in the middle part of the leg.
Knee  The joint, or region of the joint, between the thigh and leg.
Knee  In the horse and allied animals, the carpal joint, corresponding to the wrist in man.
Knee  A piece of timber or metal formed with an angle somewhat in the shape of the human knee when bent.
Knee  A bending of the knee, as in respect or courtesy.
Knee  To supplicate by kneeling.
Kneebrush  A tuft or brush of hair on the knees of some species of antelopes and other animals; -- chiefly used in the plural.
Kneebrush  A thick mass or collection of hairs on the legs of bees, by aid of which they carry the collected pollen to the hive or nest; -- usually in the plural.
Kneecap  The kneepan.
Kneecap  A cap or protection for the knee.
Knee-crooking  Obsequious; fawning; cringing.
Kneed  Having knees;- used chiefly in composition; as, in-kneed; out-kneed; weak-kneed.
Kneed  Geniculated; forming an obtuse angle at the joints, like the knee when a little bent; as, kneed grass.
Knee-deep  Rising to the knees; knee-high; as, water or snow knee-deep.
Knee-deep  Sunk to the knees; as, men knee-deep in water.
Knee-high  Rising or reaching upward to the knees; as, the water is knee-high.
Kneejoint  The joint of the knee.
Kneejoint  A toggle joint; -- so called because consisting of two pieces jointed to each other end to end, making an angle like the knee when bent.
Kneejointed  Geniculate; kneed. See Kneed, a., 2.
Knelt  of Kneel
Kneeled  of Kneel
Kneeling  of Kneel
Kneel  To bend the knee; to fall or rest on the knees; -- sometimes with down.
Kneeler  One who kneels or who worships by or while kneeling.
Kneeler  A cushion or stool to kneel on.
Kneeler  A name given to certain catechumens and penitents who were permitted to join only in parts of church worship.
Kneelingly  In a kneeling position.
Kneepan  A roundish, flattened, sesamoid bone in the tendon in front of the knee joint; the patella; the kneecap.
Kneepiece  A piece shaped like a knee; as, the kneepieces or ears of a boat.
Knell  The stoke of a bell tolled at a funeral or at the death of a person; a death signal; a passing bell; hence, figuratively, a warning of, or a sound indicating, the passing away of anything.
Knelled  of Knell
Knelling  of Knell
Knell  To sound as a knell; especially, to toll at a death or funeral; hence, to sound as a warning or evil omen.
Knell  To summon, as by a knell.
Knelt  of Kneel.
Knew  of Know.
Knicker  A small ball of clay, baked hard and oiled, used as a marble by boys in playing.
Knickerbockers  The name for a style of short breeches; smallclothes.
Knickknack  A trifle or toy; a bawble; a gewgaw.
Knickknackatory  A collection of knickknacks.
Knickknackery  Knickknacks.
Knives  of Knife
Knife  An instrument consisting of a thin blade, usually of steel and having a sharp edge for cutting, fastened to a handle, but of many different forms and names for different uses; as, table knife, drawing knife, putty knife, pallet knife, pocketknife, penknife, chopping knife, etc..
Knife  A sword or dagger.
Knifed  of Knife
Knifing  of Knife
Knife  To prune with the knife.
Knife  To cut or stab with a knife.
Knifeboard  A board on which knives are cleaned or polished.
Knife-edge  A piece of steel sharpened to an acute edge or angle, and resting on a smooth surface, serving as the axis of motion of a pendulum, scale beam, or other piece required to oscillate with the least possible friction.
Knight  A young servant or follower; a military attendant.
Knight  In feudal times, a man-at-arms serving on horseback and admitted to a certain military rank with special ceremonies, including an oath to protect the distressed, maintain the right, and live a stainless life.
Knight  One on whom knighthood, a dignity next below that of baronet, is conferred by the sovereign, entitling him to be addressed as Sir; as, Sir John.
Knight  A champion; a partisan; a lover.
Knight  A piece used in the game of chess, usually bearing a horse's head.
Knight  A playing card bearing the figure of a knight; the knave or jack.
Knighted  of Knight
Knighting  of Knight
Knight  To dub or create (one) a knight; -- done in England by the sovereign only, who taps the kneeling candidate with a sword, saying: Rise, Sir ---.
Knightage  To body of knights, taken collectively.
Knights  of Knight bachelor
Knight  A knight of the most ancient, but lowest, order of English knights, and not a member of any order of chivalry. See Bachelor, 4.
Knights  of Knight banneret
Knight  A knight who carried a banner, who possessed fiefs to a greater amount than the knight bachelor, and who was obliged to serve in war with a greater number of attendants. The dignity was sometimes conferred by the sovereign in person on the field of battle.
Knight  See Baronet.
Knight-errants  of Knight-errant
Knights-errant  of Knight-errant
Knight-errant  A wandering knight; a knight who traveled in search of adventures, for the purpose of exhibiting military skill, prowess, and generosity.
Knight-errantries  of Knight-errantry
Knight-errantry  The character or actions of wandering knights; the practice of wandering in quest of adventures; chivalry; a quixotic or romantic adventure or scheme.
Knight-er-ratic  Pertaining to a knight-errant or to knight-errantry.
Knighthead  A bollard timber. See under Bollard.
Knighthood  The character, dignity, or condition of a knight, or of knights as a class; hence, chivalry.
Knighthood  The whole body of knights.
Knightless  Unbecoming a knight.
Knightliness  The character or bearing suitable for a knight; chivalry.
Knightly  Of or pertaining to a knight; becoming a knight; chivalrous; as, a knightly combat; a knightly spirit.
Knightly  In a manner becoming a knight.
Knight  An officer in the household of the British sovereign, who has cognizance of transgressions within the royal household and verge, and of contracts made there, a member of the household being one of the parties.
Knight  A tenure of lands held by knights on condition of performing military service. See Chivalry, n., 4.
Knights  of Knight Templar
Knight  See Commandery, n., 3, and also Templar, n., 1 and 3.
Knit  of Knit
Knitted  of Knit
Knitting  of Knit
Knit  To form into a knot, or into knots; to tie together, as cord; to fasten by tying.
Knit  To form, as a textile fabric, by the interlacing of yarn or thread in a series of connected loops, by means of needles, either by hand or by machinery; as, to knit stockings.
Knit  To join; to cause to grow together.
Knit  To unite closely; to connect; to engage; as, hearts knit together in love.
Knit  To draw together; to contract into wrinkles.
Knit  To form a fabric by interlacing yarn or thread; to weave by making knots or loops.
Knit  To be united closely; to grow together; as, broken bones will in time knit and become sound.
Knit  Union knitting; texture.
Knitback  The plant comfrey; -- so called from its use as a restorative.
Knitch  Alt. of Knitchet
Knitchet  A number of things tied or knit together; a bundle; a fagot.
Knits  Small particles of ore.
Knitster  A woman who knits.
Knitter  One who, or that which, knits, joins, or unites; a knitting machine.
Knitting  The work of a knitter; the network formed by knitting.
Knitting  Union formed by knitting, as of bones.
Knittle  A string that draws together a purse or bag.
Knittle  See Nettles.
Knives  of Knife. See Knife.
Knob  A hard protuberance; a hard swelling or rising; a bunch; a lump; as, a knob in the flesh, or on a bone.
Knob  A knoblike ornament or handle; as, the knob of a lock, door, or drawer.
Knob  A rounded hill or mountain; as, the Pilot Knob.
liad  A celebrated Greek epic poem, in twenty-four books, on the destruction of Ilium, the ancient Troy. The Iliad is ascribed to Homer.
Law-fall  Depression of the jaw; hence, depression of spirits.
Laas  A lace. See Lace.
Lab  To prate; to gossip; to babble; to blab.
Lab  A telltale; a prater; a blabber.
Labadist  A follower of Jean de Labadie, a religious teacher of the 17th century, who left the Roman Catholic Church and taught a kind of mysticism, and the obligation of community of property among Christians.
Labarraque's  An aqueous solution of hypochlorite of sodium, extensively used as a disinfectant.
Labara  of Labarum
Labarum  The standard adopted by the Emperor Constantine after his conversion to Christianity. It is described as a pike bearing a silk banner hanging from a crosspiece, and surmounted by a golden crown. It bore a monogram of the first two letters (CHR) of the name of Christ in its Greek form. Later, the name was given to various modifications of this standard.
Labdanum  See Ladanum.
Labefaction  The act of labefying or making weak; the state of being weakened; decay; ruin.
Labefy  To weaken or impair.
Label  A tassel.
Label  A slip of silk, paper, parchment, etc., affixed to anything, usually by an inscription, the contents, ownership, destination, etc.; as, the label of a bottle or a package.
Label  A slip of ribbon, parchment, etc., attached to a document to hold the appended seal; also, the seal.
Label  A writing annexed by way of addition, as a codicil added to a will.
Label  A barrulet, or, rarely, a bendlet, with pendants, or points, usually three, especially used as a mark of cadency to distinguish an eldest or only son while his father is still living.
Label  A brass rule with sights, formerly used, in connection with a circumferentor, to take altitudes.
Label  The name now generally given to the projecting molding by the sides, and over the tops, of openings in mediaeval architecture. It always has a /quare form, as in the illustration.
Label  In mediaeval art, the representation of a band or scroll containing an inscription.
Labeled  of Label
Labelled  of Label
Labeling  of Label
Labelling  of Label
Label  To affix a label to; to mark with a name, etc.; as, to label a bottle or a package.
Label  To affix in or on a label.
Labeler  One who labels.
Labella  of Labellum
Labellums  of Labellum
Labellum  The lower or apparently anterior petal of an orchidaceous flower, often of a very curious shape.
Labellum  A small appendage beneath the upper lip or labrum of certain insects.
Labent  Slipping; sliding; gliding.
Labia  See Labium.
Labial  Of or pertaining to the lips or labia; as, labial veins.
Labial  Furnished with lips; as, a labial organ pipe.
Labial  Articulated, as a consonant, mainly by the lips, as b, p, m, w.
Labial  Modified, as a vowel, by contraction of the lip opening, as / (f/d), / (/ld), etc., and as eu and u in French, and o, u in German. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 11, 178.
Labial  Of or pertaining to the labium; as, the labial palpi of insects. See Labium.
Labial  A letter or character representing an articulation or sound formed or uttered chiefly with the lips, as b, p, w.
Labial  An organ pipe that is furnished with lips; a flue pipe.
Labial  One of the scales which border the mouth of a fish or reptile.
Labialism  The quality of being labial; as, the labialism of an articulation; conversion into a labial, as of a sound which is different in another language.
Labialization  The modification of an articulation by contraction of the lip opening.
Labialize  To modify by contraction of the lip opening.
Labially  In a labial manner; with, or by means of, the lips.
Labiate  To labialize.
Labiate  Having the limb of a tubular corolla or calyx divided into two unequal parts, one projecting over the other like the lips of a mouth, as in the snapdragon, sage, and catnip.
Labiate  Belonging to a natural order of plants (Labiatae), of which the mint, sage, and catnip are examples. They are mostly aromatic herbs.
Labiate  A plant of the order Labiatae.
Labiated  Same as Labiate, a. (a).
Labiatifloral  Alt. of Labiatifloral
Labiatifloral  Having labiate flowers, as the snapdragon.
Labidometer  A forceps with a measuring attachment for ascertaining the size of the fetal head.
Labile  Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize.
Lability  Liability to lapse, err, or apostatize.
Labimeter  See Labidometer.
Labiodental  Formed or pronounced by the cooperation of the lips and teeth, as f and v.
Labiodental  A labiodental sound or letter.
Labionasal  Formed by the lips and the nose.
Labionasal  A labionasal sound or letter.
Labiose  Having the appearance of being labiate; -- said of certain polypetalous corollas.
Labipalpi  of Labipalpus
Labipalpus  One of the labial palpi of an insect. See Illust. under Labium.
Labia  of Labium
Labiums  of Labium
Labium  A lip, or liplike organ.
Labium  The lip of an organ pipe.
Labium  The folds of integument at the opening of the vulva.
Labium  The organ of insects which covers the mouth beneath, and serves as an under lip. It consists of the second pair of maxillae, usually closely united in the middle line, but bearing a pair of palpi in most insects. It often consists of a thin anterior part (ligula or palpiger) and a firmer posterior plate (mentum).
Labium  Inner margin of the aperture of a shell.
Lablab  an East Indian name for several twining leguminous plants related to the bean, but commonly applied to the hyacinth bean (Dolichos Lablab).
Labor  Physical toil or bodily exertion, especially when fatiguing, irksome, or unavoidable, in distinction from sportive exercise; hard, muscular effort directed to some useful end, as agriculture, manufactures, and like; servile toil; exertion; work.
Labor  Intellectual exertion; mental effort; as, the labor of compiling a history.
Labor  That which requires hard work for its accomplishment; that which demands effort.
Labor  Travail; the pangs and efforts of childbirth.
Labor  Any pang or distress.
Labor  The pitching or tossing of a vessel which results in the straining of timbers and rigging.
Labor  A measure of land in Mexico and Texas, equivalent to an area of 177/ acres.
Labored  of Labor
Laboring  of Labor
Labor  To exert muscular strength; to exert one's strength with painful effort, particularly in servile occupations; to work; to toil.
Labor  To exert one's powers of mind in the prosecution of any design; to strive; to take pains.
Labor  To be oppressed with difficulties or disease; to do one's work under conditions which make it especially hard, wearisome; to move slowly, as against opposition, or under a burden; to be burdened; -- often with under, and formerly with of.
Labor  To be in travail; to suffer the pangs of childbirth.
Labor  To pitch or roll heavily, as a ship in a turbulent sea.
Labor  To work at; to work; to till; to cultivate by toil.
Labor  To form or fabricate with toil, exertion, or care.
Labor  To prosecute, or perfect, with effort; to urge stre/uously; as, to labor a point or argument.
Labor  To belabor; to beat.
Laborant  A chemist.
Laboratories  of Laboratory
Laboratory  The workroom of a chemist; also, a place devoted to experiments in any branch of natural science; as, a chemical, physical, or biological laboratory. Hence, by extension, a place where something is prepared, or some operation is performed; as, the liver is the laboratory of the bile.
Labored  Bearing marks of labor and effort; elaborately wrought; not easy or natural; as, labored poetry; a labored style.
Laboredly  In a labored manner; with labor.
Laborer  One who labors in a toilsome occupation; a person who does work that requires strength rather than skill, as distinguished from that of an artisan.
Laboring  That labors; performing labor; esp., performing coarse, heavy work, not requiring skill also, set apart for labor; as, laboring days.
Laboring  Suffering pain or grief.
Laborious  Requiring labor, perseverance, or sacrifices; toilsome; tiresome.
Laborious  Devoted to labor; diligent; industrious; as, a laborious mechanic.
Laborless  Not involving labor; not laborious; easy.
Laborous  Laborious.
Labor-saving  Saving labor; adapted to supersede or diminish the labor of men; as, labor-saving machinery.
Laborsome  Made with, or requiring, great labor, pains, or diligence.
Laborsome  Likely or inclined to roll or pitch, as a ship in a heavy sea; having a tendency to labor.
Labrador  A region of British America on the Atlantic coast, north of Newfoundland.
Labradorite  A kind of feldspar commonly showing a beautiful play of colors, and hence much used for ornamental purposes. The finest specimens come from Labrador. See Feldspar.
Labras  Lips.
Labroid  Like the genus Labrus; belonging to the family Labridae, an extensive family of marine fishes, often brilliantly colored, which are very abundant in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The tautog and cunner are American examples.
Labrose  Having thick lips.
Labra  of Labrum
Labrums  of Labrum
Labrum  A lip or edge, as of a basin.
Labrum  An organ in insects and crustaceans covering the upper part of the mouth, and serving as an upper lip. See Illust. of Hymenoptera.
Labrum  The external margin of the aperture of a shell. See Univalve.
Labri  of Labrus
Labrus  A genus of marine fishes, including the wrasses of Europe. See Wrasse.
Laburnic  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the laburnum.
Laburnine  A poisonous alkaloid found in the unripe seeds of the laburnum.
Laburnum  A small leguminous tree (Cytisus Laburnum), native of the Alps. The plant is reputed to be poisonous, esp. the bark and seeds. It has handsome racemes of yellow blossoms.
Labyrinth  An edifice or place full of intricate passageways which render it difficult to find the way from the interior to the entrance; as, the Egyptian and Cretan labyrinths.
Labyrinth  Any intricate or involved inclosure; especially, an ornamental maze or inclosure in a park or garden.
Labyrinth  Any object or arrangement of an intricate or involved form, or having a very complicated nature.
Labyrinth  An inextricable or bewildering difficulty.
Labyrinth  The internal ear. See Note under Ear.
Labyrinth  A series of canals through which a stream of water is directed for suspending, carrying off, and depositing at different distances, the ground ore of a metal.
Labyrinth  A pattern or design representing a maze, -- often inlaid in the tiled floor of a church, etc.
Labyrinthal  Pertaining to, or resembling, a labyrinth; intricate; labyrinthian.
Labyrinthian  Intricately winding; like a labyrinth; perplexed; labyrinthal.
Labyrinthibranch  Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthici.
Labyrinthibranch  One of the Labyrinthici.
Labyrinthic  Alt. of Labyrinthical
Labyrinthical  Like or pertaining to a labyrinth.
Labyrinthici  An order of teleostean fishes, including the Anabas, or climbing perch, and other allied fishes.
Labyrinthiform  Having the form of a labyrinth; intricate.
Labyrinthine  Pertaining to, or like, a labyrinth; labyrinthal.
Labyrinthodon  A genus of very large fossil amphibians, of the Triassic period, having bony plates on the under side of the body. It is the type of the order Labyrinthodonta. Called also Mastodonsaurus.
Labyrinthodont  Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthodonta.
Labyrinthodont  One of the Labyrinthodonta.
Labyrinthodonta  An extinct order of Amphibia, including the typical genus Labyrinthodon, and many other allied forms, from the Carboniferous, Permian, and Triassic formations. By recent writers they are divided into two or more orders. See Stegocephala.
Lac  Alt. of Lakh
Lakh  One hundred thousand; also, a vaguely great number; as, a lac of rupees.
Lac  A resinous substance produced mainly on the banyan tree, but to some extent on other trees, by the Coccus lacca, a scale-shaped insect, the female of which fixes herself on the bark, and exudes from the margin of her body this resinous substance.
Laccic  Pertaining to lac, or produced from it; as, laccic acid.
Laccin  A yellow amorphous substance obtained from lac.
Laccolite  Alt. of Laccolith
Laccolith  A mass of igneous rock intruded between sedimentary beds and resulting in a mammiform bulging of the overlying strata.
Lace  That which binds or holds, especially by being interwoven; a string, cord, or band, usually one passing through eyelet or other holes, and used in drawing and holding together parts of a garment, of a shoe, of a machine belt, etc.
Lace  A snare or gin, especially one made of interwoven cords; a net.
Lace  A fabric of fine threads of linen, silk, cotton, etc., often ornamented with figures; a delicate tissue of thread, much worn as an ornament of dress.
Lace  Spirits added to coffee or some other beverage.
Laced  of Lace
Lacing  of Lace
Lace  To fasten with a lace; to draw together with a lace passed through eyelet holes; to unite with a lace or laces, or, figuratively. with anything resembling laces.
Lace  To adorn with narrow strips or braids of some decorative material; as, cloth laced with silver.
Lace  To beat; to lash; to make stripes on.
Lace  To add spirits to (a beverage).
Lace  To be fastened with a lace, or laces; as, these boots lace.
Lace-bark  A shrub in the West Indies (Lagetta Iintearia); -- so called from the lacelike layers of its inner bark.
Laced  Fastened with a lace or laces; decorated with narrow strips or braid. See Lace, v. t.
Laced  Decorated with the fabric lace.
Lacedaemonian  Of or pertaining to Lacedaemon or Sparta, the chief city of Laconia in the Peloponnesus.
Lacedaemonian  A Spartan.
Lacemen  of Laceman
Laceman  A man who deals in lace.
Lacerable  That can be lacerated or torn.
Lacerated  of Lacerate
Lacerating  of Lacerate
Lacerate  To tear; to rend; to separate by tearing; to mangle; as, to lacerate the flesh. Hence: To afflict; to torture; as, to lacerate the heart.
Lacerate  Alt. of Lacerated
Lacerated  Rent; torn; mangled; as, a lacerated wound.
Lacerated  Jagged, or slashed irregularly, at the end, or along the edge.
Laceration  The act of lacerating.
Laceration  A breach or wound made by lacerating.
Lacerative  Lacerating, or having the power to lacerate; as, lacerative humors.
Lacert  A muscle of the human body.
Lacerta  A fathom.
Lacerta  A genus of lizards. See Lizard.
Lacerta  The Lizard, a northern constellation.
Lacertian  Like a lizard; of or pertaining to the Lacertilia.
Lacertian  One of the Lacertilia.
Lacertilia  An order of Reptilia, which includes the lizards.
Lacertilian  Same as Lacertian.
Lacertiloid  Like or belonging to the Lacertilia.
Lacertine  Lacertian.
Lacerti  of Lacertus
Lacertus  A bundle or fascicle of muscular fibers.
Lacewing  Any one of several species of neuropterous insects of the genus Chrysopa and allied genera. They have delicate, lacelike wings and brilliant eyes. Their larvae are useful in destroying aphids. Called also lace-winged fly, and goldeneyed fly.
Lace-winged  Having thin, transparent, reticulated wings; as, the lace-winged flies.
Laches  Alt. of Lache
Lache  Neglect; negligence; remissness; neglect to do a thing at the proper time; delay to assert a claim.
Lachrymable  Lamentable.
Lachrymae  A rich, sweet, red Neapolitan wine.
Lachrymal  Of or pertaining to tears; as, lachrymal effusions.
Lachrymal  Pertaining to, or secreting, tears; as, the lachrymal gland.
Lachrymal  Pertaining to the lachrymal organs; as, lachrymal bone; lachrymal duct.
Lacrymal  Alt. of Lacrymal
Lacrymal  See Lachrymatory.
Lachrymary  Containing, or intended to contain, tears; lachrymal.
Lachrymate  To weep.
Lachrymation  The act of shedding tears; weeping.
Lachrymatory  A "tear-bottle;" a narrow-necked vessel found in sepulchers of the ancient Romans; -- so called from a former notion that the tears of the deceased person's friends were collected in it. Called also lachrymal or lacrymal.
Lachrymiform  Having the form of a tear; tear-shaped.
Lachrymose  Generating or shedding tears; given to shedding tears; suffused with tears; tearful.
Lacing  The act of securing, fastening, or tightening, with a lace or laces.
Lacing  A lace; specifically (Mach.), a thong of thin leather for uniting the ends of belts.
Lacing  A rope or line passing through eyelet holes in the edge of a sail or an awning to attach it to a yard, gaff, etc.
Lacing  A system of bracing bars, not crossing each other in the middle, connecting the channel bars of a compound strut.
Laciniae  of Lacinia
Lacinia  One of the narrow, jagged, irregular pieces or divisions which form a sort of fringe on the borders of the petals of some flowers.
Lacinia  A narrow, slender portion of the edge of a monophyllous calyx, or of any irregularly incised leaf.
Lacinia  The posterior, inner process of the stipes on the maxillae of insects.
Laciniate  Alt. of Laciniated
Laciniated  Fringed; having a fringed border.
Laciniated  Cut into deep, narrow, irregular lobes; slashed.
Laciniolate  Consisting of, or abounding in, very minute laciniae.
Lacinulae  of Lacinula
Lacinulas  of Lacinula
Lacinula  A diminutive lacinia.
Lack  Blame; cause of blame; fault; crime; offense.
Lack  Deficiency; want; need; destitution; failure; as, a lack of sufficient food.
Lacked  of Lack
Lacking  of Lack
Lack  To blame; to find fault with.
Lack  To be without or destitute of; to want; to need.
Lack  To be wanting; often, impersonally, with of, meaning, to be less than, short, not quite, etc.
Lack  To be in want.
Lack  Exclamation of regret or surprise.
Lackadaisical  Affectedly pensive; languidly sentimental.
Lackadaisy  An expression of languor.
Lackadaisy  Lackadaisical.
Lackaday  Alack the day; alas; -- an expression of sorrow, regret, dissatisfaction, or surprise.
Lackbrain  One who is deficient in understanding; a witless person.
Lacker  One who lacks or is in want.
Lacker  See Lacquer.
Lackeys  of Lackey
Lackey  An attending male servant; a footman; a servile follower.
Lackey  To attend as a lackey; to wait upon.
Lackeyed  of Lackey
Lackeying  of Lackey
Lackey  To act or serve as lackey; to pay servile attendance.
Lackluster  Alt. of Lacklustre
Lacklustre  A want of luster.
Lacklustre  Wanting luster or brightness.
Lacmus  See Litmus.
Laconian  Of or pertaining to Laconia, a division of ancient Greece; Spartan.
Laconian  An inhabitant of Laconia; esp., a Spartan.
Laconic  Alt. of Laconical
Laconical  Expressing much in few words, after the manner of the Laconians or Spartans; brief and pithy; brusque; epigrammatic. In this sense laconic is the usual form.
Laconical  Laconian; characteristic of, or like, the Spartans; hence, stern or severe; cruel; unflinching.
Laconic  Laconism.
Laconical  See Laconic, a.
Laconically  In a laconic manner.
LaconIcism  Same as Laconism.
Laconism  A vigorous, brief manner of expression; laconic style.
Laconism  An instance of laconic style or expression.
Laconized  of Laconize
Laconizing  of Laconize
Laconize  To imitate the manner of the Laconians, especially in brief, pithy speech, or in frugality and austerity.
Lacquer  A varnish, consisting of a solution of shell-lac in alcohol, often colored with gamboge, saffron, or the like; -- used for varnishing metals, papier-mache, and wood. The name is also given to varnishes made of other ingredients, esp. the tough, solid varnish of the Japanese, with which ornamental objects are made.
Lacquered  of Lacquer
Lacquering  of Lacquer
Lacquer  To cover with lacquer.
Lacquerer  One who lacquers, especially one who makes a business of lacquering.
Lacquering  The act or business of putting on lacquer; also, the coat of lacquer put on.
Lacrimoso  Plaintive; -- a term applied to a mournful or pathetic movement or style.
Lacrosse  A game of ball, originating among the North American Indians, now the popular field sport of Canada, and played also in England and the United States. Each player carries a long-handled racket, called a "crosse". The ball is not handled but caught with the crosse and carried on it, or tossed from it, the object being to carry it or throw it through one of the goals placed at opposite ends of the field.
Lacrymal  See Lachrymatory, n., and Lachrymal, a.
Lacrymary  Alt. of Lacrymose
Lacrytory  Alt. of Lacrymose
Lacrymose  See Lachrymary, Lachrymatory, Lachrymose.
Lactage  The produce of animals yielding milk; milk and that which is made from it.
Lactam  One of a series of anhydrides of an amido type, analogous to the lactones, as oxindol.
Lactamic  Pertaining to, or designating, an amido acid related to lactic acid, and called also amido-propionic acid.
Lactamide  An acid amide derived from lactic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance having a neutral reaction. It is metameric with alanine.
Lactant  Suckling; giving suck.
Lactarene  A preparation of casein from milk, used in printing calico.
Lactary  Milky; full of white juice like milk.
Lactary  a dairyhouse.
Lactate  A salt of lactic acid.
Lactation  A giving suck; the secretion and yielding of milk by the mammary gland.
Lacteal  Pertaining to, or resembling, milk; milky; as, the lacteal fluid.
Lacteal  Pertaining to, or containing, chyle; as, the lacteal vessels.
Lacteal  One of the lymphatic vessels which convey chyle from the small intestine through the mesenteric glands to the thoracic duct; a chyliferous vessel.
Lacteally  Milkily; in the manner of milk.
Lactean  Milky; consisting of, or resembling, milk.
Lactean  Lacteal; conveying chyle.
Lacteous  Milky; resembling milk.
Lacteous  Lacteal; conveying chyle; as, lacteous vessels.
Lacteously  In a lacteous manner; after the manner of milk.
Lactescence  The state or quality of producing milk, or milklike juice; resemblance to milk; a milky color.
Lactescence  The latex of certain plants. See Latex.
Lactescent  Having a milky look; becoming milky.
Lactescent  Producing milk or a milklike juice or fluid, as the milkweed. See Latex.
Lactic  Of or pertaining to milk; procured from sour milk or whey; as, lactic acid; lactic fermentation, etc.
Lactide  A white, crystalline substance, obtained from also, by extension, any similar substance.
Lactiferous  Bearing or containing milk or a milky fluid; as, the lactiferous vessels, cells, or tissue of various vascular plants.
Lactific  Alt. of Lactifical
Lactifical  Producing or yielding milk.
Lactifuge  A medicine to check the secretion of milk, or to dispel a supposed accumulation of milk in any part of the body.
Lactim  One of a series of anhydrides resembling the lactams, but of an imido type; as, isatine is a lactim. Cf. Lactam.
Lactimide  A white, crystalline substance obtained as an anhydride of alanine, and regarded as an imido derivative of lactic acid.
Lactin  See Lactose.
Lactoabumin  The albumin present on milk, apparently identical with ordinary serum albumin. It is distinct from the casein of milk.
Lactobutyrometer  An instrument for determining the amount of butter fat contained in a given sample of milk.
Lactodensimeter  A form of hydrometer, specially graduated, for finding the density of milk, and thus discovering whether it has been mixed with water or some of the cream has been removed.
Lactometer  An instrument for estimating the purity or richness of milk, as a measuring glass, a specific gravity bulb, or other apparatus.
Lactone  One of a series of organic compounds, regarded as anhydrides of certain hydroxy acids. In general, they are colorless liquids, having a weak aromatic odor. They are so called because the typical lactone is derived from lactic acid.
Lactonic  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, lactone.
Lactonic  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the oxidation of milk sugar (lactose).
Lactoprotein  A peculiar albuminous body considered a normal constituent of milk.
Lactory  Lactiferous.
Lactoscope  An instrument for estimating the amount of cream contained in milk by ascertaining its relative opacity.
Lactose  Sugar of milk or milk sugar; a crystalline sugar present in milk, and separable from the whey by evaporation and crystallization. It has a slightly sweet taste, is dextrorotary, and is much less soluble in water than either cane sugar or glucose. Formerly called lactin.
Lactose  See Galactose.
Lactuca  A genus of composite herbs, several of which are cultivated foe salad; lettuce.
Lactucarium  The inspissated juice of the common lettuce, sometimes used as a substitute for opium.
Lactucic  Pertaining to, or derived from, the juice of the Lactuca virosa; -- said of certain acids.
Lactucin  A white, crystalline substance, having a bitter taste and a neutral reaction, and forming one of the essential ingredients of lactucarium.
Lactucone  A white, crystalline, tasteless substance, found in the milky sap of species of Lactuca, and constituting an essential ingredient of lactucarium.
Lacturamic  Pertaining to, or designating, an organic amido acid, which is regarded as a derivative of lactic acid and urea.
Lactyl  An organic residue or radical derived from lactic acid.
Lacunae  of Lacuna
Lacunas  of Lacuna
Lacuna  A small opening; a small pit or depression; a small blank space; a gap or vacancy; a hiatus.
Lacuna  A small opening; a small depression or cavity; a space, as a vacant space between the cells of plants, or one of the spaces left among the tissues of the lower animals, which serve in place of vessels for the circulation of the body fluids, or the cavity or sac, usually of very small size, in a mucous membrane.
Lacunal  Alt. of Lacunar
Lacunar  Pertaining to, or having, lacunae; as, a lacunar circulation.
Lacunars  of Lacunar
Lacunaria  of Lacunar
Lacunar  The ceiling or under surface of any part, especially when it consists of compartments, sunk or hollowed without spaces or bands between the panels.
Lacunar  One of the sunken panels in such a ceiling.
Lacune  A lacuna.
Lacunose  Alt. of Lacunous
Lacunous  Furrowed or pitted; having shallow cavities or lacunae; as, a lacunose leaf.
Lacustral  Alt. of Lacustrine
Lacustrine  Found in, or pertaining to, lakes or ponds, or growing in them; as, lacustrine flowers.
Lacwork  Ornamentation by means of lacquer painted or carved, or simply colored, sprinkled with gold or the like; -- said especially of Oriental work of this kind.
Lad  p. p. of Lead, to guide.
Lad  A boy; a youth; a stripling.
Lad  A companion; a comrade; a mate.
Ladanum  A gum resin gathered from certain Oriental species of Cistus. It has a pungent odor and is chiefly used in making plasters, and for fumigation.
Ladde  of Lead, to guide.
Ladder  A frame usually portable, of wood, metal, or rope, for ascent and descent, consisting of two side pieces to which are fastened cross strips or rounds forming steps.
Ladder  That which resembles a ladder in form or use; hence, that by means of which one attains to eminence.
Laddie  A lad; a male sweetheart.
Laded  of Lade
Laded  of Lade
Laded  of Lade
Lading  of Lade
Lade  To load; to put a burden or freight on or in; -- generally followed by that which receives the load, as the direct object.
Lade  To throw in out. with a ladle or dipper; to dip; as, to lade water out of a tub, or into a cistern.
Lade  To transfer (the molten glass) from the pot to the forming table.
Lade  To draw water.
Lade  To admit water by leakage, as a ship, etc.
Lade  The mouth of a river.
Lade  A passage for water; a ditch or drain.
Lademan  One who leads a pack horse; a miller's servant.
Laden  Loaded; freighted; burdened; as, a laden vessel; a laden heart.
Ladied  Ladylike; not rough; gentle.
Ladies'  The small-flowered Fuchsia (F. coccinea), and other closely related species.
Ladify  To make a lady of; to make ladylike.
Ladin  A Romansch dialect spoken in some parts of Switzerland and the Tyrol.
Lading  The act of loading.
Lading  That which lades or constitutes a load or cargo; freight; burden; as, the lading of a ship.
Ladinos  of Ladino
Ladino  One of the half-breed descendants of whites and Indians; a mestizo; -- so called throughout Central America. They are usually of a yellowish orange tinge.
Ladkin  A little lad.
Ladle  A cuplike spoon, often of large size, with a long handle, used in lading or dipping.
Ladle  A vessel to carry liquid metal from the furnace to the mold.
Ladle  The float of a mill wheel; -- called also ladle board.
Ladle  An instrument for drawing the charge of a cannon.
Ladle  A ring, with a handle or handles fitted to it, for carrying shot.
Ladled  of Ladle
Ladling  of Ladle
Ladle  To take up and convey in a ladle; to dip with, or as with, a ladle; as, to ladle out soup; to ladle oatmeal into a kettle.
Ladlefuls  of Ladleful
Ladleful  A quantity sufficient to fill a ladle.
Ladrone  A robber; a pirate; hence, loosely, a rogue or rascal.
Ladies  of Lady
Lady  A woman who looks after the domestic affairs of a family; a mistress; the female head of a household.
Lady  A woman having proprietary rights or authority; mistress; -- a feminine correlative of lord.
Lady  A woman to whom the particular homage of a knight was paid; a woman to whom one is devoted or bound; a sweetheart.
Lady  A woman of social distinction or position. In England, a title prefixed to the name of any woman whose husband is not of lower rank than a baron, or whose father was a nobleman not lower than an earl. The wife of a baronet or knight has the title of Lady by courtesy, but not by right.
Lady  A woman of refined or gentle manners; a well-bred woman; -- the feminine correlative of gentleman.
Lady  A wife; -- not now in approved usage.
Lady  The triturating apparatus in the stomach of a lobster; -- so called from a fancied resemblance to a seated female figure. It consists of calcareous plates.
Lady  Belonging or becoming to a lady; ladylike.
Ladybird  Any one of numerous species of small beetles of the genus Coccinella and allied genera (family Coccinellidae); -- called also ladybug, ladyclock, lady cow, lady fly, and lady beetle. Coccinella seplempunctata in one of the common European species. See Coccinella.
Ladybug  Same as Ladybird.
Ladyclock  See Ladyrird.
Lady  The day of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25. See Annunciation.
Ladyfish  A large, handsome oceanic fish (Albula vulpes), found both in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called also bonefish, grubber, French mullet, and macabe.
Ladyfish  A labroid fish (Harpe rufa) of Florida and the West Indies.
Ladyhood  The state or quality of being a lady; the personality of a lady.
Lady-killer  A gallant who captivates the hearts of women.
Lady-killing  The art or practice of captivating the hearts of women.
Ladykin  A little lady; -- applied by the writers of Queen Elizabeth's time, in the abbreviated form Lakin, to the Virgin Mary.
Ladylike  Like a lady in appearance or manners; well-bred.
Ladylike  Becoming or suitable to a lady; as, ladylike manners.
Ladylike  Delicate; tender; feeble; effeminate.
Ladylikeness  The quality or state of being ladylike.
Ladylove  A sweetheart or mistress.
Lady's  The common bedstraw (Galium verum); also, a slender-leaved East Indian shrub (Pharnaceum Mollugo), with white flowers in umbels.
Lady's  A climbing plant with fragrant blossoms (Clematis vitalba).
Lady's  An umbelliferous plant (Scandix Pecten-Veneris), its clusters of long slender fruits remotely resembling a comb.
Lady's  An herb growing in dense tufts; the thrift (Armeria vulgaris).
Lady's  The kidney vetch.
Lady's  A variety of small cake of about the dimensions of a finger.
Lady's  A long, slender variety of the potato.
Lady's  One of the branchiae of the lobster.
Lady's  Ribbon grass.
Lady's  A plant of the genus Briza (B. media); a variety of quaking grass.
Ladyship  The rank or position of a lady; -- given as a title (preceded by her or your).
Lady's  A slender climbing plant; dodder.
Lady's  See Venus's looking-glass, under Venus.
Lady's  A genus of rosaceous herbs (Alchemilla), esp. the European A. vulgaris, which has leaves with rounded and finely serrated lobes.
Lady's  The European Solomon's seal (Polygonatum verticillatum).
Lady's  The black bryony (Tamus communis).
Lady's  Any orchidaceous plant of the genus Cypripedium, the labellum of which resembles a slipper. Less commonly, in the United States, the garden balsam (Impatiens Balsamina).
Lady's  A plant of the genus Cardamine (C. pratensis); cuckoo flower.
Lady's  The harebell.
Lady's  An annual weed (Polygonum Persicaria), having a lanceolate leaf with a dark spot in the middle.
Lady's  Alt. of Ladies' tresses
Ladies'  A name given to several species of the orchidaceous genus Spiranthes, in which the white flowers are set in spirals about a slender axis and remotely resemble braided hair.
Laelaps  A genus of huge, carnivorous, dinosaurian reptiles from the Cretaceous formation of the United States. They had very large hind legs and tail, and are supposed to have been bipedal. Some of the species were about eighteen feet high.
Laemmergeyer  See Lammergeir.
Laemodipod  One of the Laemodipoda.
Laemodipoda  A division of amphipod Crustacea, in which the abdomen is small or rudimentary and the legs are often reduced to five pairs. The whale louse, or Cyamus, and Caprella are examples.
Laemodipodous  Of or pertaining to the Laemodipoda.
Laetere  The fourth Sunday of Lent; -- so named from the Latin word Laetare (rejoice), the first word in the antiphone of the introit sung that day in the Roman Catholic service.
Laevigate  Having a smooth surface, as if polished.
Laevo-  A prefix. See Levo.
Laevorotatory  Same as Levorotatory. Cf. Dextrorotatory.
Laevulose  See Levulose.
Lafayette  The dollar fish.
Lafayette  A market fish, the goody, or spot (Liostomus xanthurus), of the southern coast of the United States.
Laft  p. p. of Leave.
Lafte  imp. of Leave.
Lag  Coming tardily after or behind; slow; tardy.
Lag  Last; long-delayed; -- obsolete, except in the phrase lag end.
Lag  Last made; hence, made of refuse; inferior.
Lag  One who lags; that which comes in last.
Lag  The fag-end; the rump; hence, the lowest class.
Lag  The amount of retardation of anything, as of a valve in a steam engine, in opening or closing.
Lag  A stave of a cask, drum, etc.; especially (Mach.), one of the narrow boards or staves forming the covering of a cylindrical object, as a boiler, or the cylinder of a carding machine or a steam engine.
Lag  See Graylag.
Lagged  of Lag
Lagging  of Lag
Lag  To walk or more slowly; to stay or fall behind; to linger or loiter.
Lag  To cause to lag; to slacken.
Lag  To cover, as the cylinder of a steam engine, with lags. See Lag, n., 4.
Lag  One transported for a crime.
Lag  To transport for crime.
Lagan  See Ligan.
Lagarto  An alligator.
Lagenae  of Lagena
Lagenas  of Lagena
Lagena  The terminal part of the cochlea in birds and most reptiles; an appendage of the sacculus, corresponding to the cochlea, in fishes and amphibians.
Lagenian  Like, or pertaining to, Lagena, a genus of Foraminifera having a straight, chambered shell.
Lageniform  Shaped like a bottle or flask; flag-shaped.
Lager  Lager beer.
Lager  Originally a German beer, but now also made in immense quantities in the United States; -- so called from its being laid up or stored for some months before use.
Lager  Wine which has been kept for some time in the cellar.
Laggard  Slow; sluggish; backward.
Laggard  One who lags; a loiterer.
Lagger  A laggard.
Lagging  The clothing (esp., an outer, wooden covering), as of a steam cylinder, applied to prevent the radiation of heat; a covering of lags; -- called also deading and cleading.
Lagging  Lags, collectively; narrow planks extending from one rib to another in the centering of arches.
Laggingly  In a lagging manner; loiteringly.
Lagly  Laggingly.
Lagomorph  One of the Lagomorpha.
Lagemorpha  A group of rodents, including the hares. They have four incisors in the upper jaw. Called also Duplicidentata.
Lagoon  A shallow sound, channel, pond, or lake, especially one into which the sea flows; as, the lagoons of Venice.
Lagoon  A lake in a coral island, often occupying a large portion of its area, and usually communicating with the sea. See Atoll.
Lagophthalmia  Alt. of Lagophthalmos
Lagophthalmos  A morbid condition in which the eye stands wide open, giving a peculiar staring appearance.
Lagopous  Having a dense covering of long hair, like the foot of a hare.
Lagune  See Lagoon.
Laic  Alt. of Laical
Laical  Of or pertaining to a layman or the laity.
Laic  A layman.
Laicality  The state or quality of being laic; the state or condition of a layman.
Laically  As a layman; after the manner of a layman; as, to treat a matter laically.
Laid  of Lay.
Laidly  Ugly; loathsome.
Lain  of Lie, v. i.
Lainere  See Lanier.
Lair  A place in which to lie or rest; especially, the bed or couch of a wild beast.
Lair  A burying place.
Lair  A pasture; sometimes, food.
Laird  A lord; a landholder, esp. one who holds land directly of the crown.
Lairdship  The state of being a laird; an estate; landed property.
Laism  See Lamaism.
Laissez  Noninterference; -- an axiom of some political economists, deprecating interference of government by attempts to foster or regulate commerce, manufactures, etc., by bounty or by restriction; as, the doctrine of laissez faire; the laissez faire system government.
Laity  The people, as distinguished from the clergy; the body of the people not in orders.
Laity  The state of a layman.
Laity  Those who are not of a certain profession, as law or medicine, in distinction from those belonging to it.
Lakao  Sap green.
Lake  A pigment formed by combining some coloring matter, usually by precipitation, with a metallic oxide or earth, esp. with aluminium hydrate; as, madder lake; Florentine lake; yellow lake, etc.
Lake  A kind of fine white linen, formerly in use.
Lake  To play; to sport.
Lake  A large body of water contained in a depression of the earth's surface, and supplied from the drainage of a more or less extended area.
Lake-dweller  See Lake dwellers, under Lake.
Lakelet  A little lake.
Lakeweed  The water pepper (Polygonum Hydropiper), an aquatic plant of Europe and North America.
Lakh  Same as Lac, one hundred thousand.
Lakin  See Ladykin.
Lakke  See Lack.
Laky  Pertaining to a lake.
Laky  Transparent; -- said of blood rendered transparent by the action of some solvent agent on the red blood corpuscles.
Lallation  An imperfect enunciation of the letter r, in which it sounds like l.
Lalo  The powdered leaves of the baobab tree, used by the Africans to mix in their soup, as the southern negroes use powdered sassafras. Cf. Couscous.
Lammed  of Lam
Lamming  of Lam
Lam  To beat soundly; to thrash.
Lama  See Llama.
Lama  In Thibet, Mongolia, etc., a priest or monk of the belief called Lamaism.
Lamaic  Of or pertaining to Lamaism.
Lamaism  A modified form of Buddhism which prevails in Thibet, Mongolia, and some adjacent parts of Asia; -- so called from the name of its priests. See 2d Lama.
Lamaist  Alt. of Lamaite
Lamaite  One who believes in Lamaism.
Lamaistic  Of or pertaining to Lamaism.
Lamantin  The manatee.
Lamarckian  Pertaining to, or involved in, the doctrines of Lamarckianism.
Lamarckianism  Lamarckism.
Lamarckism  The theory that structural variations, characteristic of species and genera, are produced in animals and plants by the direct influence of physical environments, and esp., in the case of animals, by effort, or by use or disuse of certain organs.
Lamasery  A monastery or convent of lamas, in Thibet, Mongolia, etc.
Lamb  The young of the sheep.
Lamb  Any person who is as innocent or gentle as a lamb.
Lamb  A simple, unsophisticated person; in the cant of the Stock Exchange, one who ignorantly speculates and is victimized.
Lambed  of Lamb
Lambing  of Lamb
Lamb  To bring forth a lamb or lambs, as sheep.
Lambale  A feast at the time of shearing lambs.
Lambaste  To beat severely.
Lambative  Taken by licking with the tongue.
Lambative  A medicine taken by licking with the tongue; a lincture.
Lambda  The name of the Greek letter /, /, corresponding with the English letter L, l.
Lambda  The point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures of the skull.
Lambdacism  A fault in speaking or in composition, which consists in too frequent use of the letter l, or in doubling it erroneously.
Lambdacism  A defect in pronunciation of the letter l when doubled, which consists in giving it a sound as if followed by y, similar to that of the letters lli in billion.
Lambdacism  The use of the sound of l for that of r in pronunciation; lallation; as, Amelican for American.
Lambdoid  Shaped like the Greek letter lambda (/); as, the lambdoid suture between the occipital and parietal bones of the skull.
Lambdoidal  Same as Lambdoid.
Lambent  Playing on the surface; touching lightly; gliding over.
Lambent  Twinkling or gleaming; fickering.
Lambert  The gigantic sugar pine of California and Oregon (Pinus Lambertiana). It has the leaves in fives, and cones a foot long. The timber is soft, and like that of the white pine of the Eastern States.
Lambkin  A small lamb.
Lamblike  Like a lamb; gentle; meek; inoffensive.
Lamboys  Same as Base, n., 19.
Lambrequin  A kind of pendent scarf or covering attached to the helmet, to protect it from wet or heat.
Lambrequin  A leather flap hanging from a cuirass.
Lambrequin  A piece of ornament drapery or short decorative hanging, pendent from a shelf or from the casing above a window, hiding the curtain fixtures, or the like.
Lambskin  The skin of a lamb; especially, a skin dressed with the wool on, and used as a mat. Also used adjectively.
Lambskin  A kind of woolen.
Lambskinnet  See Lansquenet.
Lamb's-quarters  A name given to several plants of the Goosefoot family, sometimes used as pot herbs, as Chenopodium album and Atriplex patulsa.
Lamdoidal  Lambdoid.
Lame  Moving with pain or difficulty on account of injury, defect, or temporary obstruction of a function; as, a lame leg, arm, or muscle.
Lame  To some degree disabled by reason of the imperfect action of a limb; crippled; as, a lame man.
Lame  Hence, hobbling; limping; inefficient; imperfect.
Lamed  of Lame
Laming  of Lame
Lame  To make lame.
Lamel  See Lamella.
Lamellae  of Lamella
Lamellas  of Lamella
Lamella  a thin plate or scale of anything, as a thin scale growing from the petals of certain flowers; or one of the thin plates or scales of which certain shells are composed.
Lamellar  Flat and thin; lamelliform; composed of lamellae.
Lamellarly  In thin plates or scales.
Lamellary  Of or pertaining to lamella or to lamellae; lamellar.
Lamellate  Alt. of Lamellated
Lamellated  Composed of, or furnished with, thin plates or scales. See Illust. of Antennae.
Lamellibranch  One of the Lamellibranchia. Also used adjectively.
Lamellibranchia  Alt. of Lamellibranchiata
Lamellibranchiata  A class of Mollusca including all those that have bivalve shells, as the clams, oysters, mussels, etc.
Lamellibranchiate  Having lamellar gills; belonging to the Lamellibranchia.
Lamellibranchiate  One of the Lamellibranchia.
Lamellicorn  Having antennae terminating in a group of flat lamellae; -- said of certain coleopterous insects.
Lamellicorn  Terminating in a group of flat lamellae; -- said of antennae.
Lamellicorn  A lamellicorn insect.
Lamellicornia  A group of lamellicorn, plant-eating beetles; -- called also Lamellicornes.
Lamelliferous  Bearing, or composed of, lamellae, or thin layers, plates, or scales; foliated.
Lamelliform  Thin and flat; scalelike; lamellar.
Lamellirostral  Having a lamellate bill, as ducks and geese.
Lamellirostres  A group of birds embracing the Anseres and flamingoes, in which the bill is lamellate.
Lamellose  Composed of, or having, lamellae; lamelliform.
Lamely  An a lame, crippled, disabled, or imperfect manner; as, to walk lamely; a figure lamely drawn.
Lameness  The condition or quality of being lame; as, the lameness of an excuse or an argument.
Lament  To express or feel sorrow; to weep or wail; to mourn.
Lamented  of Lament
Lamenting  of Lament
Lament  To mourn for; to bemoan; to bewail.
Lament  Grief or sorrow expressed in complaints or cries; lamentation; a wailing; a moaning; a weeping.
Lament  An elegy or mournful ballad, or the like.
Lamentable  Mourning; sorrowful; expressing grief; as, a lamentable countenance.
Lamentable  Fitted to awaken lament; to be lamented; sorrowful; pitiable; as, a lamentable misfortune, or error.
Lamentable  Miserable; pitiful; paltry; -- in a contemptuous or ridiculous sense.
Lamentation  The act of bewailing; audible expression of sorrow; wailing; moaning.
Lamentation  A book of the Old Testament attributed to the prophet Jeremiah, and taking its name from the nature of its contents.
Lamented  Mourned for; bewailed.
Lamenter  One who laments.
Lamentin  See Lamantin.
Lamenting  Lamentation.
Lamentingly  In a lamenting manner.
Lames  Small steel plates combined together so as to slide one upon the other and form a piece of armor.
Lametta  Foil or wire made of gold, silver, or brass.
Lamia  A monster capable of assuming a woman's form, who was said to devour human beings or suck their blood; a vampire; a sorceress; a witch.
Laminae  of Lamina
Laminas  of Lamina
Lamina  A thin plate or scale; a layer or coat lying over another; -- said of thin plates or platelike substances, as of bone or minerals.
Lamina  The blade of a leaf; the broad, expanded portion of a petal or sepal of a flower.
Lamina  A thin plate or scale; specif., one of the thin, flat processes composing the vane of a feather.
Laminability  The quality or state of being laminable.
Laminable  Capable of being split into laminae or thin plates, as mica; capable of being extended under pressure into a thin plate or strip.
Laminar  Alt. of Laminal
Laminal  In, or consisting of, thin plates or layers; having the form of a thin plate or lamina.
Laminaria  A genus of great seaweeds with long and broad fronds; kelp, or devil's apron. The fronds commonly grow in clusters, and are sometimes from thirty to fifty feet in length. See Illust. of Kelp.
Laminarian  Pertaining to seaweeds of the genus Laminaria, or to that zone of the sea (from two to ten fathoms in depth) where the seaweeds of this genus grow.
Laminarite  A broad-leafed fossil alga.
Laminary  Laminar.
Laminate  Consisting of, or covered with, laminae, or thin plates, scales, or layers, one over another; laminated.
Laminated  of Laminate
Laminating  of Laminate
Laminate  To cause to separate into thin plates or layers; to divide into thin plates.
Laminate  To form, as metal, into a thin plate, as by rolling.
Laminate  To separate into laminae.
Laminated  Laminate.
Laminating  Forming, or separating into, scales or thin layers.
Lamination  The process of laminating, or the state of being laminated.
Laminiferous  Having a structure consisting of laminae, or thin layers.
Laminiplantar  Having the tarsus covered behind with a horny sheath continuous on both sides, as in most singing birds, except the larks.
Laminitis  Inflammation of the laminae or fleshy plates along the coffin bone of a horse; founder.
Lamish  Somewhat lame.
Lamm  See Lam.
Lammas  The first day of August; -- called also Lammas day, and Lammastide.
Lammergeir  Alt. of Lammergeier
Lammergeier  A very large vulture (Gypaetus barbatus), which inhabits the mountains of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa. When full-grown it is nine or ten feet in extent of wings. It is brownish black above, with the under parts and neck rusty yellow; the forehead and crown white; the sides of the head and beard black. It feeds partly on carrion and partly on small animals, which it kills. It has the habit of carrying tortoises and marrow bones to a great height, and dropping them on stones to obtain the contents, and is therefore called bonebreaker and ossifrage. It is supposed to be the ossifrage of the Bible. Called also bearded vulture and bearded eagle.
Lamnunguia  Same as Hyracoidea.
Lamp  A thin plate or lamina.
Lamp  A light-producing vessel, instrument or apparatus; especially, a vessel with a wick used for the combustion of oil or other inflammable liquid, for the purpose of producing artificial light.
Lamp  Figuratively, anything which enlightens intellectually or morally; anything regarded metaphorically a performing the uses of a lamp.
Lamp  A device or mechanism for producing light by electricity. See Incandescent lamp, under Incandescent.
Lampad  A lamp or candlestick.
Lampadist  One who gained the prize in the lampadrome.
Lampadrome  A race run by young men with lighted torches in their hands. He who reached the goal first, with his torch unextinguished, gained the prize.
Lampas  An inflammation and swelling of the soft parts of the roof of the mouth immediately behind the fore teeth in the horse; -- called also lampers.
Lampate  A supposed salt of lampic acid.
Lampblack  The fine impalpable soot obtained from the smoke of carbonaceous substances which have been only partly burnt, as in the flame of a smoking lamp. It consists of finely divided carbon, with sometimes a very small proportion of various impurities. It is used as an ingredient of printers' ink, and various black pigments and cements.
Lamper  See Lamprey.
Lampern  The river lamprey (Ammocoetes, / Lampetra, fluviatilis).
Lampers  See Lampas.
Lampic  Pertaining to, or produced by, a lamp; -- formerly said of a supposed acid.
Lamping  Shining; brilliant.
Lampless  Being without a lamp, or without light; hence, being without appreciation; dull.
Lamplight  Light from a lamp.
Lamplighter  One who, or that which, lights a lamp; esp., a person who lights street lamps.
Lamplighter  The calico bass.
Lampoon  A personal satire in writing; usually, malicious and abusive censure written only to reproach and distress.
Lampooned  of Lampoon
Lampooning  of Lampoon
Lampoon  To subject to abusive ridicule expressed in writing; to make the subject of a lampoon.
Lampooner  The writer of a lampoon.
Lampoonry  The act of lampooning; a lampoon, or lampoons.
Lamp-post  A post (generally a pillar of iron) supporting a lamp or lantern for lighting a street, park, etc.
Lamprel  See Lamprey.
Lampreys  of Lamprey
Lamprey  An eel-like marsipobranch of the genus Petromyzon, and allied genera. The lampreys have a round, sucking mouth, without jaws, but set with numerous minute teeth, and one to three larger teeth on the palate (see Illust. of Cyclostomi). There are seven small branchial openings on each side.
Lampron  See Lamprey.
Lampyrine  An insect of the genus Lampyris, or family Lampyridae. See Lampyris.
Lampyris  A genus of coleopterous insects, including the glowworms.
Lanarkite  A mineral consisting of sulphate of lead, occurring either massive or in long slender prisms, of a greenish white or gray color.
Lanary  A place for storing wool.
Lanate  Alt. of Lanated
Lanated  Wooly; covered with fine long hair, or hairlike filaments.
Lacashire  A steam boiler having two flues which contain the furnaces and extend through the boiler from end to end.
Lacasterian  Of or pertaining to the monitorial system of instruction followed by Joseph Lancaster, of England, in which advanced pupils in a school teach pupils below them.
Lance  A weapon of war, consisting of a long shaft or handle and a steel blade or head; a spear carried by horsemen, and often decorated with a small flag; also, a spear or harpoon used by whalers and fishermen.
Lance  A soldier armed with a lance; a lancer.
Lance  A small iron rod which suspends the core of the mold in casting a shell.
Lance  An instrument which conveys the charge of a piece of ordnance and forces it home.
Lance  One of the small paper cases filled with combustible composition, which mark the outlines of a figure.
Lanced  of Lance
Lancing  of Lance
Lance  To pierce with a lance, or with any similar weapon.
Lance  To open with a lancet; to pierce; as, to lance a vein or an abscess.
Lance  To throw in the manner of a lance. See Lanch.
Lance  A slender marine fish of the genus Ammodytes, especially Ammodytes tobianus of the English coast; -- called also sand lance.
Lancegay  Alt. of Lancegaye
Lancegaye  A kind of spear anciently used. Its use was prohibited by a statute of Richard II.
Lancelet  A small fishlike animal (Amphioxus lanceolatus), remarkable for the rudimentary condition of its organs. It is the type of the class Leptocardia. See Amphioxus, Leptocardia.
Lancely  Like a lance.
Lanceolar  Lanceolate.
Lanceolate  Alt. of Lanceolated
Lanceolated  Rather narrow, tapering to a point at the apex, and sometimes at the base also; as, a lanceolate leaf.
Lancepesade  An assistant to a corporal; a private performing the duties of a corporal; -- called also lance corporal.
Lancer  One who lances; one who carries a lance; especially, a member of a mounted body of men armed with lances, attached to the cavalry service of some nations.
Lancer  A lancet.
Lancer  A set of quadrilles of a certain arrangement.
Lancet  A surgical instrument of various forms, commonly sharp-pointed and two-edged, used in venesection, and in opening abscesses, etc.
Lancet  An iron bar used for tapping a melting furnace.
Lancewood  A tough, elastic wood, often used for the shafts of gigs, archery bows, fishing rods, and the like. Also, the tree which produces this wood, Duguetia Quitarensis (a native of Guiana and Cuba), and several other trees of the same family (Anonaseae).
Lanched  of Lanch
Lanching  of Lanch
Lanch  To throw, as a lance; to let fly; to launch.
Lanciferous  Bearing a lance.
Lanciform  Having the form of a lance.
Lancinated  of Lanciname
Lancinating  of Lanciname
Lanciname  To tear; to lacerate; to pierce or stab.
Lancinating  Piercing; seeming to pierce or stab; as, lancinating pains (i.e., severe, darting pains).
Lancination  A tearing; laceration.
Land  Urine. See Lant.
Land  The solid part of the surface of the earth; -- opposed to water as constituting a part of such surface, especially to oceans and seas; as, to sight land after a long voyage.
Land  Any portion, large or small, of the surface of the earth, considered by itself, or as belonging to an individual or a people, as a country, estate, farm, or tract.
Land  Ground, in respect to its nature or quality; soil; as, wet land; good or bad land.
Land  The inhabitants of a nation or people.
Land  The mainland, in distinction from islands.
Land  The ground or floor.
Land  The ground left unplowed between furrows; any one of several portions into which a field is divided for convenience in plowing.
Land  Any ground, soil, or earth whatsoever, as meadows, pastures, woods, etc., and everything annexed to it, whether by nature, as trees, water, etc., or by the hand of man, as buildings, fences, etc.; real estate.
Land  The lap of the strakes in a clinker-built boat; the lap of plates in an iron vessel; -- called also landing.
Land  In any surface prepared with indentations, perforations, or grooves, that part of the surface which is not so treated, as the level part of a millstone between the furrows, or the surface of the bore of a rifled gun between the grooves.
Landed  of Land
Landing  of Land
Land  To set or put on shore from a ship or other water craft; to disembark; to debark.
Land  To catch and bring to shore; to capture; as, to land a fish.
Land  To set down after conveying; to cause to fall, alight, or reach; to bring to the end of a course; as, he landed the quoit near the stake; to be thrown from a horse and landed in the mud; to land one in difficulties or mistakes.
Land  To go on shore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to come to the end of a course.
Landamman  A chief magistrate in some of the Swiss cantons.
Landamman  The president of the diet of the Helvetic republic.
Landau  A four-wheeled covered vehicle, the top of which is divided into two sections which can be let down, or thrown back, in such a manner as to make an open carriage.
Landaulet  A small landau.
Landed  Having an estate in land.
Landed  Consisting in real estate or land; as, landed property; landed security.
Lander  One who lands, or makes a landing.
Lander  A person who waits at the mouth of the shaft to receive the kibble of ore.
Landfall  A sudden transference of property in land by the death of its owner.
Landfall  Sighting or making land when at sea.
Landflood  An overflowing of land by river; an inundation; a freshet.
Landgrave  A German nobleman of a rank corresponding to that of an earl in England and of a count in France.
Landgraviate  The territory held by a landgrave.
Landgraviate  The office, jurisdiction, or authority of a landgrave.
Landgravine  The wife of a landgrave.
Landholder  A holder, owner, or proprietor of land.
Landing  Of, pertaining to or used for, setting, bringing, or going, on shore.
Landing  A going or bringing on shore.
Landing  A place for landing, as from a ship, a carriage. etc.
Landing  The level part of a staircase, at the top of a flight of stairs, or connecting one flight with another.
Landladies  of Landlady
Landlady  A woman having real estate which she leases to a tenant or tenants.
Landlady  The mistress of an inn or lodging house.
Landleaper  See Landlouper.
Landless  Having no property in land.
Landlock  To inclose, or nearly inclose, as a harbor or a vessel, with land.
Landlocked  Inclosed, or nearly inclosed, by land.
Landlocked  Confined to a fresh-water lake by reason of waterfalls or dams; -- said of fishes that would naturally seek the sea, after spawning; as, the landlocked salmon.
Landloper  Same as Landlouper.
Landlord  The lord of a manor, or of land; the owner of land or houses which he leases to a tenant or tenants.
Landlord  The master of an inn or of a lodging house.
Landlordism  The state of being a landlord; the characteristics of a landlord; specifically, in Great Britain, the relation of landlords to tenants, especially as regards leased agricultural lands.
Landlordry  The state of a landlord.
Landlouper  A vagabond; a vagrant.
Landlouping  Vagrant; wandering about.
Landlubber  One who passes his life on land; -- so called among seamen in contempt or ridicule.
Landmen  of Landman
Landman  A man who lives or serves on land; -- opposed to seaman.
Landman  An occupier of land.
Landmark  A mark to designate the boundary of land; any , mark or fixed object (as a marked tree, a stone, a ditch, or a heap of stones) by which the limits of a farm, a town, or other portion of territory may be known and preserved.
Landmark  Any conspicuous object on land that serves as a guide; some prominent object, as a hill or steeple.
Landowner  An owner of land.
Landowning  The owning of land.
Landowning  Having property in land; of or pertaining to landowners.
Land-poor  Pecuniarily embarrassed through owning much unprofitable land.
Landreeve  A subordinate officer on an extensive estate, who acts as an assistant to the steward.
Landscape  A portion of land or territory which the eye can comprehend in a single view, including all the objects it contains.
Landscape  A picture representing a scene by land or sea, actual or fancied, the chief subject being the general aspect of nature, as fields, hills, forests, water. etc.
Landscape  The pictorial aspect of a country.
Landscapist  A painter of landscapes.
Landskip  A landscape.
Landslip  Alt. of Landslide
Landslide  The slipping down of a mass of land from a mountain, hill, etc.
Landslide  The land which slips down.
Landsmen  of Landsman
Landsman  One who lives on the land; -- opposed to seaman.
Landsman  A sailor on his first voyage.
Landstreight  A narrow strip of land.
Landsturm  That part of the reserve force in Germany which is called out last.
Landtag  The diet or legislative body; as, the Landtag of Prussia.
Landwaiter  See Landing waiter, under Landing, a.
Landward  Toward the land.
Landwehr  That part of the army, in Germany and Austria, which has completed the usual military service and is exempt from duty in time of peace, except that it is called out occasionally for drill.
Lane  Alone.
Lane  A passageway between fences or hedges which is not traveled as a highroad; an alley between buildings; a narrow way among trees, rocks, and other natural obstructions; hence, in a general sense, a narrow passageway; as, a lane between lines of men, or through a field of ice.
Lang  Long.
Langaha  A curious colubriform snake of the genus Xyphorhynchus, from Madagascar. It is brownish red, and its nose is prolonged in the form of a sharp blade.
Langarey  One of numerous species of long-winged, shrikelike birds of Australia and the East Indies, of the genus Artamus, and allied genera; called also wood swallow.
Langate  A linen roller used in dressing wounds.
Langdak  A wolf (Canis pallipes), found in India, allied to the jackal.
Langrage  Alt. of Langrel
Langrel  A kind of shot formerly used at sea for tearing sails and rigging. It consisted of bolts, nails, and other pieces of iron fastened together or inclosed in a canister.
Langret  A kind of loaded die.
Langridge  See Langrage.
Langsyne  Long since; long ago.
Langteraloo  An old game at cards. See Loo (a).
Language  Any means of conveying or communicating ideas; specifically, human speech; the expression of ideas by the voice; sounds, expressive of thought, articulated by the organs of the throat and mouth.
Language  The expression of ideas by writing, or any other instrumentality.
Language  The forms of speech, or the methods of expressing ideas, peculiar to a particular nation.
Language  The characteristic mode of arranging words, peculiar to an individual speaker or writer; manner of expression; style.
Language  The inarticulate sounds by which animals inferior to man express their feelings or their wants.
Language  The suggestion, by objects, actions, or conditions, of ideas associated therewith; as, the language of flowers.
Language  The vocabulary and phraseology belonging to an art or department of knowledge; as, medical language; the language of chemistry or theology.
Language  A race, as distinguished by its speech.
Languaged  of Language
Languaging  of Language
Language  To communicate by language; to express in language.
Languaged  Having a language; skilled in language; -- chiefly used in composition.
Languageless  Lacking or wanting language; speechless; silent.
Langued  Tongued; having the tongue visible.
Langue  The dialect, closely akin to French, formerly spoken south of the Loire (in which the word for "yes" was oc); Provencal.
Langue  The dialect formerly spoken north of the Loire (in which the word for "yes" was oil, F. oui).
Languente  In a languishing manner; pathetically.
Languet  Anything resembling the tongue in form or office; specif., the slip of metal in an organ pipe which turns the current of air toward its mouth.
Languet  That part of the hilt, in certain kinds of swords, which overlaps the scabbard.
Languid  Drooping or flagging from exhaustion; indisposed to exertion; without animation; weak; weary; heavy; dull.
Languid  Slow in progress; tardy.
Languid  Promoting or indicating weakness or heaviness; as, a languid day.
Languished  of Languish
Languishing  of Languish
Languish  To become languid or weak; to lose strength or animation; to be or become dull, feeble or spiritless; to pine away; to wither or fade.
Languish  To assume an expression of weariness or tender grief, appealing for sympathy.
Languish  To cause to droop or pine.
Languish  See Languishiment.
Languisher  One who languishes.
Languishing  Becoming languid and weak; pining; losing health and strength.
Languishing  Amorously pensive; as, languishing eyes, or look.
Languishingly  In a languishing manner.
Languishment  The state of languishing.
Languishment  Tenderness of look or mien; amorous pensiveness.
Languishness  Languishment.
Languor  A state of the body or mind which is caused by exhaustion of strength and characterized by a languid feeling; feebleness; lassitude; laxity.
Languor  Any enfeebling disease.
Languor  Listless indolence; dreaminess. Pope.
Languorous  Producing, or tending to produce, languor; characterized by languor.
Langure  To languish.
Langya  One of several species of East Indian and Asiatic fresh-water fishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, remarkable for their power of living out of water, and for their tenacity of life; -- called also walking fishes.
Laniard  See Lanyard.
Laniariform  Shaped like a laniary, or canine, tooth.
Laniary  Lacerating or tearing; as, the laniary canine teeth.
Laniary  The shambles; a place of slaughter.
Laniary  A laniary, or canine, tooth.
Laniate  To tear in pieces.
Laniation  A tearing in pieces.
Lanier  A thong of leather; a whip lash.
Lanier  A strap used to fasten together parts of armor, to hold the shield by, and the like.
Laniferous  Bearing or producing wool.
Lanifical  Working in wool.
Lanifice  Anything made of wool.
Lanigerous  Bearing or producing wool.
Lanioid  Of or pertaining to the shrikes (family Laniidae).
Lank  Slender and thin; not well filled out; not plump; shrunken; lean.
Lank  Languid; drooping.
Lank  To become lank; to make lank.
Lankiness  The condition or quality or being lanky.
Lankly  In a lank manner.
Lankness  The state or quality of being lank.
Lanky  Somewhat lank.
Lanner  Alt. of Lanneret
Lanneret  A long-tailed falcon (Falco lanarius), of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa, resembling the American prairie falcon.
Lanolin  A peculiar fatlike body, made up of cholesterin and certain fatty acids, found in feathers, hair, wool, and keratin tissues generally.
Lanseh  The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansium domesticum). It has a fleshy pulp, with an agreeable subacid taste.
Lansquenet  A German foot soldier in foreign service in the 15th and 16th centuries; a soldier of fortune; -- a term used in France and Western Europe.
Lansquenet  A game at cards, vulgarly called lambskinnet.
Lant  Urine.
Lant  Any one of several species of small, slender, marine fishes of the genus Ammedytes. The common European species (A. tobianus) and the American species (A. Americanus) live on sandy shores, buried in the sand, and are caught in large quantities for bait. Called also launce, and sand eel.
Lant  See Lanterloo.
Lantanium  Alt. of Lantanum
Lantanum  See Lanthanum.
Lantanuric  Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic acid of the uric acid group, obtained by the decomposition of allantoin, and usually called allanturic acid.
Lanterloo  An old name of loo (a).
Lantern  Something inclosing a light, and protecting it from wind, rain, etc. ; -- sometimes portable, as a closed vessel or case of horn, perforated tin, glass, oiled paper, or other material, having a lamp or candle within; sometimes fixed, as the glazed inclosure of a street light, or of a lighthouse light.
Lantern  An open structure of light material set upon a roof, to give light and air to the interior.
Lantern  A cage or open chamber of rich architecture, open below into the building or tower which it crowns.
Lantern  A smaller and secondary cupola crowning a larger one, for ornament, or to admit light; such as the lantern of the cupola of the Capitol at Washington, or that of the Florence cathedral.
Lantern  A lantern pinion or trundle wheel. See Lantern pinion (below).
Lantern  A kind of cage inserted in a stuffing box and surrounding a piston rod, to separate the packing into two parts and form a chamber between for the reception of steam, etc. ; -- called also lantern brass.
Lantern  A perforated barrel to form a core upon.
Lantern  See Aristotle's lantern.
Lanterned  of Lantern
Lanterning  of Lantern
Lantern  To furnish with a lantern; as, to lantern a lighthouse.
Lantern-jawed  Having lantern jaws or long, thin jaws; as, a lantern-jawed person.
Lanthanite  Hydrous carbonate of lanthanum, found in tabular while crystals.
Lanthanum  A rare element of the group of the earth metals, allied to aluminium. It occurs in certain rare minerals, as cerite, gadolinite, orthite, etc., and was so named from the difficulty of separating it from cerium, didymium, and other rare elements with which it is usually associated. Atomic weight 138.5. Symbol La.
Lanthopine  An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
Lanthorn  See Lantern.
Lanuginose  Alt. of Lanuginous
Lanuginous  Covered with down, or fine soft hair; downy.
Lanugo  The soft woolly hair which covers most parts of the mammal fetus, and in man is shed before or soon after birth.
Lanyard  A short piece of rope or line for fastening something in ships; as, the lanyards of the gun ports, of the buoy, and the like; esp., pieces passing through the dead-eyes, and used to extend shrouds, stays, etc.
Lanyard  A strong cord, about twelve feet long, with an iron hook at one end a handle at the other, used in firing cannon with a friction tube.
Lanyer  See Lanier.
Laocoon  A priest of Apollo, during the Trojan war. (See 2.)
Laocoon  A marble group in the Vatican at Rome, representing the priest Laocoon, with his sons, infolded in the coils of two serpents, as described by Virgil.
Laodicean  Of or pertaining to Laodicea, a city in Phrygia Major; like the Christians of Laodicea; lukewarm in religion.
Lap  The loose part of a coat; the lower part of a garment that plays loosely; a skirt; an apron.
Lap  An edge; a border; a hem, as of cloth.
Lap  The part of the clothing that lies on the knees or thighs when one sits down; that part of the person thus covered; figuratively, a place of rearing and fostering; as, to be reared in the lap of luxury.
Lap  That part of any substance or fixture which extends over, or lies upon, or by the side of, a part of another; as, the lap of a board; also, the measure of such extension over or upon another thing.
Lap  The amount by which a slide valve at its half stroke overlaps a port in the seat, being equal to the distance the valve must move from its mid stroke position in order to begin to open the port. Used alone, lap refers to outside lap. See Outside lap (below).
Lap  The state or condition of being in part extended over or by the side of something else; or the extent of the overlapping; as, the second boat got a lap of half its length on the leader.
Lap  One circuit around a race track, esp. when the distance is a small fraction of a mile; as, to run twenty laps; to win by three laps. See Lap, to fold, 2.
Lap  In card playing and other games, the points won in excess of the number necessary to complete a game; -- so called when they are counted in the score of the following game.
Lap  A sheet, layer, or bat, of cotton fiber prepared for the carding machine.
Lap  A piece of brass, lead, or other soft metal, used to hold a cutting or polishing powder in cutting glass, gems, and the like, or in polishing cutlery, etc. It is usually in the form of wheel or disk, which revolves on a vertical axis.
Lapped  of Lap
Lapping  of Lap
Lap  To rest or recline in a lap, or as in a lap.
Lap  To cut or polish with a lap, as glass, gems, cutlery, etc. See 1st Lap, 10.
Lap  To fold; to bend and lay over or on something; as, to lap a piece of cloth.
Lap  To wrap or wind around something.
Lap  To infold; to hold as in one's lap; to cherish.
Lap  To lay or place over anything so as to partly or wholly cover it; as, to lap one shingle over another; to lay together one partly over another; as, to lap weather-boards; also, to be partly over, or by the side of (something); as, the hinder boat lapped the foremost one.
Lap  To lay together one over another, as fleeces or slivers for further working.
Lap  To be turned or folded; to lie partly upon or by the side of something, or of one another; as, the cloth laps back; the boats lap; the edges lap.
Lap  To take up drink or food with the tongue; to drink or feed by licking up something.
Lap  To make a sound like that produced by taking up drink with the tongue.
Lap  To take into the mouth with the tongue; to lick up with a quick motion of the tongue.
Lap  The act of lapping with, or as with, the tongue; as, to take anything into the mouth with a lap.
Lap  The sound of lapping.
Laparocele  A rupture or hernia in the lumbar regions.
Laparotomy  A cutting through the walls of the abdomen, as in the Caesarean section.
Lapboard  A board used on the lap as a substitute for a table, as by tailors.
Lapdog  A small dog fondled in the lap.
Lapel  That part of a garment which is turned back; specifically, the lap, or fold, of the front of a coat in continuation of collar.
Lapelled  Furnished with lapels.
Lapfuls  of Lapful
Lapful  As much as the lap can contain.
Lapicide  A stonecutter.
Lapidarian  Of or pertaining to stone; inscribed on stone; as, a lapidarian record.
Lapidarious  Consisting of stones.
Lapidaries  of Lapidary
Lapidary  An artificer who cuts, polishes, and engraves precious stones; hence, a dealer in precious stones.
Lapidary  A virtuoso skilled in gems or precious stones; a connoisseur of lapidary work.
Lapidary  Of or pertaining to the art of cutting stones, or engraving on stones, either gems or monuments; as, lapidary ornamentation.
Lapidary  Of or pertaining to monumental inscriptions; as, lapidary adulation.
Lapidate  To stone.
Lapidation  The act of stoning.
Lapideous  Of the nature of stone.
Lapidescence  The state or quality of being lapidescent.
Lapidescence  A hardening into a stone substance.
Lapidescence  A stony concretion.
Lapidescent  Undergoing the process of becoming stone; having the capacity of being converted into stone; having the quality of petrifying bodies.
Lapidescent  Any substance which has the quality of petrifying other bodies, or of converting or being converted into stone.
Lapidific  Alt. of Lapidifical
Lapidifical  Forming or converting into stone.
Lapidification  The act or process of lapidifying; fossilization; petrifaction.
Lapidified  of Lapidify
Lapidifying  of Lapidify
Lapidify  To convert into stone or stony material; to petrify.
Lapidify  To become stone or stony.
Lapidist  A lapidary.
Lapillation  The state of being, or the act of making, stony.
Lapilli  Volcanic ashes, consisting of small, angular, stony fragments or particles.
Lapides  of Lapis
Lapis  A stone.
Lapis  An albuminous mineral of a rich blue color. Same as Lazuli, which see.
Lap-jointed  Having a lap joint, or lap joints, as many kinds of woodwork and metal work.
Laplander  A native or inhabitant of Lapland; -- called also Lapp.
Laplandish  Of or pertaining to Lapland.
Lapling  One who has been fondled to excess; one fond of ease and sensual delights; -- a term of contempt.
Lapp  Same as Laplander. Cf. Lapps.
Lappaceous  Resembling the capitulum of burdock; covered with forked points.
Lapper  One who takes up food or liquid with his tongue.
Lappet  A small decorative fold or flap, esp, of lace or muslin, in a garment or headdress.
Lappeted  of Lappet
Lappeting  of Lappet
Lappet  To decorate with, or as with, a lappet.
Lappic  Of or pertaining to Lapland, or the Lapps.
Lappic  The language of the Lapps. See Lappish.
Lapping  A kind of machine blanket or wrapping material used by calico printers.
Lappish  Of or pertaining to the Lapps; Laplandish.
Lappish  The language spoken by the Lapps in Lapland. It is related to the Finnish and Hungarian, and is not an Aryan language.
Lapponian  Alt. of Lapponic
Lapponic  Laplandish; Lappish.
Lapps  A branch of the Mongolian race, now living in the northern parts of Norway, Sweden, and the adjacent parts of Russia.
Lapsable  Lapsible.
Lapse  A gliding, slipping, or gradual falling; an unobserved or imperceptible progress or passing away,; -- restricted usually to immaterial things, or to figurative uses.
Lapse  A slip; an error; a fault; a failing in duty; a slight deviation from truth or rectitude.
Lapse  The termination of a right or privilege through neglect to exercise it within the limited time, or through failure of some contingency; hence, the devolution of a right or privilege.
Lapse  A fall or apostasy.
Lapsed  of Lapse
Lapsing  of Lapse
Lapse  To pass slowly and smoothly downward, backward, or away; to slip downward, backward, or away; to glide; -- mostly restricted to figurative uses.
Lapse  To slide or slip in moral conduct; to fail in duty; to fall from virtue; to deviate from rectitude; to commit a fault by inadvertence or mistake.
Lapse  To fall or pass from one proprietor to another, or from the original destination, by the omission, negligence, or failure of some one, as a patron, a legatee, etc.
Lapse  To become ineffectual or void; to fall.
Lapse  To let slip; to permit to devolve on another; to allow to pass.
Lapse  To surprise in a fault or error; hence, to surprise or catch, as an offender.
Lapsed  Having slipped downward, backward, or away; having lost position, privilege, etc., by neglect; -- restricted to figurative uses.
men  of Keelman
Maa  The common European gull (Larus canus); -- called also mar. See New, a gull.
Maad  Made.
Maalin  The sparrow hawk.
Maalin  The kestrel.
Ma'am  Madam; my lady; -- a colloquial contraction of madam often used in direct address, and sometimes as an appellation.
Maara  A large, pearly, spiral, marine shell (Turbo margaritaceus), from the Pacific Islands. It is used as an ornament.
Maasha  An East Indian coin, of about one tenth of the weight of a rupee.
Maat  Dejected; sorrowful; downcast.
Mad  A slattern.
Mad  The name of a female fairy, esp. the queen of the fairies; and hence, sometimes, any fairy.
Mabble  To wrap up.
Mabby  A spirituous liquor or drink distilled from potatoes; -- used in the Barbadoes.
Mabolo  A kind of persimmon tree (Diospyros discolor) from the Philippine Islands, now introduced into the East and West Indies. It bears an edible fruit as large as a quince.
Mac  A prefix, in names of Scotch origin, signifying son.
Macaco  Any one of several species of lemurs, as the ruffed lemur (Lemur macaco), and the ring-tailed lemur (L. catta).
Macacus  A genus of monkeys, found in Asia and the East Indies. They have short tails and prominent eyebrows.
Macadamization  The process or act of macadamizing.
Macadamized  of Macadamize
Macadamizing  of Macadamize
Macadamize  To cover, as a road, or street, with small, broken stones, so as to form a smooth, hard, convex surface.
Maoadam  A macadamized road.
Macao  A macaw.
Macaque  Any one of several species of short-tailed monkeys of the genus Macacus; as, M. maurus, the moor macaque of the East Indies.
Macaranga  A gum of a crimson color, obtained from a tree (Macaranga Indica) that grows in the East Indies. It is used in taking impressions of coins, medallions, etc., and sometimes as a medicine.
Macarize  To congratulate.
Macaronis  of Macaroni
Macaronies  of Macaroni
Macaroni  Long slender tubes made of a paste chiefly of wheat flour, and used as an article of food; Italian or Genoese paste.
Macaroni  A medley; something droll or extravagant.
Macaroni  A sort of droll or fool.
Macaroni  A finical person; a fop; -- applied especially to English fops of about 1775.
Macaroni  The designation of a body of Maryland soldiers in the Revolutionary War, distinguished by a rich uniform.
Macaronian  Alt. of Macaronic
Macaronic  Pertaining to, or like, macaroni (originally a dish of mixed food); hence, mixed; confused; jumbled.
Macaronic  Of or pertaining to the burlesque composition called macaronic; as, macaronic poetry.
Macaronic  A heap of thing confusedly mixed together; a jumble.
Macaronic  A kind of burlesque composition, in which the vernacular words of one or more modern languages are intermixed with genuine Latin words, and with hybrid formed by adding Latin terminations to other roots.
Macaroon  A small cake, composed chiefly of the white of eggs, almonds, and sugar.
Macaroon  A finical fellow, or macaroni.
Macartney  A fire-backed pheasant. See Fireback.
Macassar  A kind of oil formerly used in dressing the hair; -- so called because originally obtained from Macassar, a district of the Island of Celebes. Also, an imitation of the same, of perfumed castor oil and olive oil.
Macauco  Any one of several species of small lemurs, as Lemur murinus, which resembles a rat in size.
Macavahu  A small Brazilian monkey (Callithrix torquatus), -- called also collared teetee.
Macaw  Any parrot of the genus Sittace, or Macrocercus. About eighteen species are known, all of them American. They are large and have a very long tail, a strong hooked bill, and a naked space around the eyes. The voice is harsh, and the colors are brilliant and strongly contrasted.
Maccabean  Of or pertaining to Judas Maccabeus or to the Maccabees; as, the Maccabean princes; Maccabean times.
Maccabees  The name given later times to the Asmonaeans, a family of Jewish patriots, who headed a religious revolt in the reign of Antiochus IV., 168-161 B. C., which led to a period of freedom for Israel.
Maccabees  The name of two ancient historical books, which give accounts of Jewish affairs in or about the time of the Maccabean princes, and which are received as canonical books in the Roman Catholic Church, but are included in the Apocrypha by Protestants. Also applied to three books, two of which are found in some MSS. of the Septuagint.
Maccaboy  Alt. of Maccoboy
Maccoboy  A kind of snuff.
Macco  A gambling game in vogue in the eighteenth century.
Mace  A money of account in China equal to one tenth of a tael; also, a weight of 57.98 grains.
Mace  A kind of spice; the aril which partly covers nutmegs. See Nutmeg.
Mace  A heavy staff or club of metal; a spiked club; -- used as weapon in war before the general use of firearms, especially in the Middle Ages, for breaking metal armor.
Mace  A staff borne by, or carried before, a magistrate as an ensign of his authority.
Mace  An officer who carries a mace as an emblem of authority.
Mace  A knobbed mallet used by curriers in dressing leather to make it supple.
Mace  A rod for playing billiards, having one end suited to resting on the table and pushed with one hand.
Macedonian  Belonging, or relating, to Macedonia.
Macedonian  A native or inhabitant of Macedonia.
Macedonian  One of a certain religious sect, followers of Macedonius, Bishop of Constantinople, in the fourth century, who held that the Holy Ghost was a creature, like the angels, and a servant of the Father and the Son.
Macedonianism  The doctrines of Macedonius.
Macer  A mace bearer; an officer of a court.
Macerated  of Macerate
Macerating  of Macerate
Macerate  To make lean; to cause to waste away.
Macerate  To subdue the appetites of by poor and scanty diet; to mortify.
Macerate  To soften by steeping in a liquid, with or without heat; to wear away or separate the parts of by steeping; as, to macerate animal or vegetable fiber.
Macerater  One who, or that which, macerates; an apparatus for converting paper or fibrous matter into pulp.
Maceration  The act or process of macerating.
Machaerodus  Alt. of Machairodus
Machairodus  A genus of extinct mammals allied to the cats, and having in the upper jaw canine teeth of remarkable size and strength; -- hence called saber-toothed tigers.
Machete  A large heavy knife resembling a broadsword, often two or three feet in length, -- used by the inhabitants of Spanish America as a hatchet to cut their way through thickets, and for various other purposes.
Machiavelian  Of or pertaining to Machiavel, or to his supposed principles; politically cunning; characterized by duplicity or bad faith; crafty.
Machiavelian  One who adopts the principles of Machiavel; a cunning and unprincipled politician.
Machiavelism  Alt. of Machiavelianism
Machiavelianism  The supposed principles of Machiavel, or practice in conformity to them; political artifice, intended to favor arbitrary power.
Machicolated  Having machicolations.
Machicolation  An opening between the corbels which support a projecting parapet, or in the floor of a gallery or the roof of a portal, shooting or dropping missiles upen assailants attacking the base of the walls. Also, the construction of such defenses, in general, when of this character. See Illusts. of Battlement and Castle.
Machicolation  The act of discharging missiles or pouring burning or melted substances upon assailants through such apertures.
Machicoulis  Same as Machicolation.
Machinal  Of or pertaining to machines.
Machinated  of Machinate
Machinating  of Machinate
Machinate  To plan; to contrive; esp., to form a scheme with the purpose of doing harm; to contrive artfully; to plot.
Machinate  To contrive, as a plot; to plot; as, to machinate evil.
Machination  The act of machinating.
Machination  That which is devised; a device; a hostile or treacherous scheme; an artful design or plot.
Machinator  One who machinates, or forms a scheme with evil designs; a plotter or artful schemer.
Machine  In general, any combination of bodies so connected that their relative motions are constrained, and by means of which force and motion may be transmitted and modified, as a screw and its nut, or a lever arranged to turn about a fulcrum or a pulley about its pivot, etc.; especially, a construction, more or less complex, consisting of a combination of moving parts, or simple mechanical elements, as wheels, levers, cams, etc., with their supports and connecting framework, calculated to constitute a prime mover, or to receive force and motion from a prime mover or from another machine, and transmit, modify, and apply them to the production of some desired mechanical effect or work, as weaving by a loom, or the excitation of electricity by an electrical machine.
Machine  Any mechanical contrivance, as the wooden horse with which the Greeks entered Troy; a coach; a bicycle.
Machine  A person who acts mechanically or at will of another.
Machine  A combination of persons acting together for a common purpose, with the agencies which they use; as, the social machine.
Machine  A political organization arranged and controlled by one or more leaders for selfish, private or partisan ends.
Machine  Supernatural agency in a poem, or a superhuman being introduced to perform some exploit.
Machined  of Machine
Machining  of Machine
Machine  To subject to the action of machinery; to effect by aid of machinery; to print with a printing machine.
Machiner  One who or operates a machine; a machinist.
Machinery  Machines, in general, or collectively.
Machinery  The working parts of a machine, engine, or instrument; as, the machinery of a watch.
Machinery  The supernatural means by which the action of a poetic or fictitious work is carried on and brought to a catastrophe; in an extended sense, the contrivances by which the crises and conclusion of a fictitious narrative, in prose or verse, are effected.
Machinery  The means and appliances by which anything is kept in action or a desired result is obtained; a complex system of parts adapted to a purpose.
Machining  Of or pertaining to the machinery of a poem; acting or used as a machine.
Machinist  A constrictor of machines and engines; one versed in the principles of machines.
Machinist  One skilled in the use of machine tools.
Machinist  A person employed to shift scenery in a theater.
Macho  The striped mullet of California (Mugil cephalus, / Mexicanus).
Macilency  Leanness.
Macilent  Lean; thin.
Macintosh  Same as Mackintosh.
Mackerel  A pimp; also, a bawd.
Mackerel  Any species of the genus Scomber, and of several related genera. They are finely formed and very active oceanic fishes. Most of them are highly prized for food.
Mackinaw  Alt. of Mackinaw
Mackinaw  A thick blanket formerly in common use in the western part of the United States.
Mackintosh  A waterproof outer garment; -- so called from the name of the inventor.
Mackle  Same Macule.
Mackle  To blur, or be blurred, in printing, as if there were a double impression.
Macle  Chiastolite; -- so called from the tessellated appearance of a cross section. See Chiastolite.
Macle  A crystal having a similar tessellated appearance.
Macle  A twin crystal.
Macled  Marked like macle (chiastolite).
Macled  Having a twin structure. See Twin, a.
Macled  See Mascled.
Maclurea  A genus of spiral gastropod shells, often of large size, characteristic of the lower Silurian rocks.
Maclurin  See Morintannic.
Macrame  A coarse lace made of twine, used especially in decorating furniture.
Macrencephalic  Alt. of Macrencephalous
Macrencephalous  Having a large brain.
Macro-  A combining form signifying long, large, great; as macrodiagonal, macrospore.
Macrobiotic  Long-lived.
Macrobiotics  The art of prolonging life.
Macrocephalous  Having a large head.
Macrocephalous  Having the cotyledons of a dicotyledonous embryo confluent, and forming a large mass compared with the rest of the body.
Macro-chemistry  The science which treats of the chemical properties, actions or relations of substances in quantity; -- distinguished from micro-chemistry.
Macrochires  A division of birds including the swifts and humming birds. So called from the length of the distal part of the wing.
Macrocosm  The great world; that part of the universe which is exterior to man; -- contrasted with microcosm, or man. See Microcosm.
Macrocosmic  Of or pertaining to the macrocosm.
Macrocystis  An immensely long blackish seaweed of the Pacific (Macrocystis pyrifera), having numerous almond-shaped air vessels.
Macrodactyl  One of a group of wading birds (Macrodactyli) having very long toes.
Macrodactylic  Alt. of Macrodactylous
Macrodactylous  Having long toes.
Macrodiagonal  The longer of two diagonals, as of a rhombic prism. See Crystallization.
Macrodome  A dome parallel to the longer lateral axis of an orthorhombic crystal. See Dome, n., 4.
Macrodont  Having large teeth.
Macrodont  A macrodont animal.
Macrofarad  See Megafarad.
Macroglossia  Enlargement or hypertrophy of the tongue.
Macrognathic  Long-jawed.
Macrology  Long and tedious talk without much substance; superfluity of words.
Macrometer  An instrument for determining the size or distance of inaccessible objects by means of two reflectors on a common sextant.
Macron  A short, straight, horizontal mark [-], placed over vowels to denote that they are to be pronounced with a long sound; as, a, in dame; /, in s/am, etc.
Macropetalous  Having long or large petals.
Macrophyllous  Having long or large leaves.
Macropinacoid  One of the two planes of an orthorhombic crystal which are parallel to the vertical and longer lateral (macrodiagonal) axes.
Macropod  Any one of a group of maioid crabs remarkable for the length of their legs; -- called also spider crab.
Macropodal  Having long or large feet, or a long stem.
Macropodian  A macropod.
Macropodous  Having long legs or feet.
Macroprism  A prism of an orthorhombic crystal between the macropinacoid and the unit prism; the corresponding pyramids are called macropyramids.
Macropteres  A division of birds; the Longipennes.
Macropterous  Having long wings.
Macropus  genus of marsupials including the common kangaroo.
Macropyramid  See Macroprism.
Macroscopic  Alt. of Macroscopical
Macroscopical  Visible to the unassisted eye; -- as opposed to microscopic.
Macrosporangium  A sporangium or conceptacle containing only large spores; -- opposed to microsporangium. Both are found in the genera Selaginella, Isoctes, and Marsilia, plants remotely allied to ferns.
Macrospore  One of the specially large spores of certain flowerless plants, as Selaginella, etc.
Macrosporic  Of or pertaining to macrospores.
Macrotone  Same as Macron.
Macrotous  Large-eared.
Macroura  Alt. of Macroural
Macroural  Same as Macrura, Macrural, etc.
Macrozoospore  A large motile spore having four vibratile cilia; -- found in certain green algae.
Macrura  A subdivision of decapod Crustacea, having the abdomen largely developed. It includes the lobster, prawn, shrimp, and many similar forms. Cf. Decapoda.
Macrural  Same as Macrurous.
Macruran  One of the Macrura.
Macruroid  Like or pertaining to the Macrura.
Macrurous  Of or pertaining to the Macrura; having a long tail.
Mactation  The act of killing a victim for sacrifice.
Mactra  Any marine bivalve shell of the genus Mactra, and allied genera. Many species are known. Some of them are used as food, as Mactra stultorum, of Europe. See Surf clam, under Surf.
Maculae  of Macula
Macula  A spot, as on the skin, or on the surface of the sun or of some other luminous orb.
Macula  A rather large spot or blotch of color.
Maculate  To spot; to stain; to blur.
Maculate  Marked with spots or maculae; blotched; hence, defiled; impure; as, most maculate thoughts.
Maculated  Having spots or blotches; maculate.
Maculation  The act of spotting; a spot; a blemish.
Maculatory  Causing a spot or stain.
Maculature  Blotting paper.
Macule  A spot.
Macule  A blur, or an appearance of a double impression, as when the paper slips a little; a mackle.
Macule  To blur; especially (Print.), to blur or double an impression from type. See Mackle.
Maculose  Of or pertaining to spots upon a surface; spotted; maculate.
Mad  p. p. of Made.
Mad  Disordered in intellect; crazy; insane.
Mad  Excited beyond self-control or the restraint of reason; inflamed by violent or uncontrollable desire, passion, or appetite; as, to be mad with terror, lust, or hatred; mad against political reform.
Mad  Proceeding from, or indicating, madness; expressing distraction; prompted by infatuation, fury, or extreme rashness.
Mad  Extravagant; immoderate.
Mad  Furious with rage, terror, or disease; -- said of the lower animals; as, a mad bull; esp., having hydrophobia; rabid; as, a mad dog.
Mad  Angry; out of patience; vexed; as, to get mad at a person.
Mad  Having impaired polarity; -- applied to a compass needle.
Madded  of Mad
Madding  of Mad
Mad  To make mad or furious; to madden.
Mad  To be mad; to go mad; to rave. See Madding.
Mad  An earthworm.
Madams  of Madam
Mesdames  of Madam
Madam  A gentlewoman; -- an appellation or courteous form of address given to a lady, especially an elderly or a married lady; -- much used in the address, at the beginning of a letter, to a woman. The corresponding word in addressing a man is Sir.
Mesdames  of Madame
Madame  My lady; -- a French title formerly given to ladies of quality; now, in France, given to all married women.
Mad-apple  See Eggplant.
Madbrain  Hot-headed; rash.
Madbrain  A rash or hot-headed person.
Madbrained  Disordered in mind; hot-headed.
Madcap  Inclined to wild sports; delighting in rash, absurd, or dangerous amusements.
Madcap  Wild; reckless.
Madcap  A person of wild behavior; an excitable, rash, violent person.
Maddened  of Madden
Maddening  of Madden
Madden  To make mad; to drive to madness; to craze; to excite violently with passion; to make very angry; to enrage.
Madden  To become mad; to act as if mad.
Madder  A plant of the Rubia (R. tinctorum). The root is much used in dyeing red, and formerly was used in medicine. It is cultivated in France and Holland. See Rubiaceous.
Madderwort  A name proposed for any plant of the same natural order (Rubiaceae) as the madder.
Madding  Affected with madness; raging; furious.
Maddish  Somewhat mad.
Made  See Mad, n.
Made  imp. & p. p. of Make.
Made  Artificially produced; pieced together; formed by filling in; as, made ground; a made mast, in distinction from one consisting of a single spar.
Madecass  Alt. of Madecassee
Madecassee  A native or inhabitant of Madagascar, or Madecassee; the language of the natives of Madagascar. See Malagasy.
Madecassee  Of or pertaining to Madagascar or its inhabitants.
Madefaction  Alt. of Madefication
Madefication  The act of madefying, or making wet; the state of that which is made wet.
Madefied  of Madefy
Madefying  of Madefy
Madefy  To make wet or moist.
Madegassy  See Madecassee.
Madeira  A rich wine made on the Island of Madeira.
Mesdemoiselles  of Mademoiselle
Mademoiselle  A French title of courtesy given to a girl or an unmarried lady, equivalent to the English Miss.
Mademoiselle  A marine food fish (Sciaena chrysura), of the Southern United States; -- called also yellowtail, and silver perch.
Madge  The barn owl.
Madge  The magpie.
Mad-headed  Wild; crack-brained.
Madhouse  A house where insane persons are confined; an insane asylum; a bedlam.
Madia  A genus of composite plants, of which one species (Madia sativa) is cultivated for the oil yielded from its seeds by pressure. This oil is sometimes used instead of olive oil for the table.
Madid  Wet; moist; as, a madid eye.
Madisterium  An instrument to extract hairs.
Madjoun  An intoxicating confection from the hemp plant; -- used by the Turks and Hindoos.
Madly  In a mad manner; without reason or understanding; wildly.
Madmen  of Madman
Madman  A man who is mad; lunatic; a crazy person.
Madnep  The masterwort (Peucedanum Ostruthium).
Madness  The condition of being mad; insanity; lunacy.
Madness  Frenzy; ungovernable rage; extreme folly.
Madonna  My lady; -- a term of address in Italian formerly used as the equivalent of Madame, but for which Signora is now substituted. Sometimes introduced into English.
Madonna  A picture of the Virgin Mary (usually with the babe).
Madoqua  A small Abyssinian antelope (Neotragus Saltiana), about the size of a hare.
Madrague  A large fish pound used for the capture of the tunny in the Mediterranean; also applied to the seines used for the same purpose.
Madreperl  Mother-of-pearl.
Madrepora  A genus of reef corals abundant in tropical seas. It includes than one hundred and fifty species, most of which are elegantly branched.
Madreporaria  An extensive division of Anthozoa, including most of the species that produce stony corals. See Illust. of Anthozoa.
Madrepore  Any coral of the genus Madrepora; formerly, often applied to any stony coral.
Madreporian  Alt. of Madreporic
Madreporic  Resembling, or pertaining to, the genus Madrepora.
Madreporiform  Resembling a madreporian coral in form or structure.
Madreporite  A fossil coral.
Madreporite  The madreporic plate of echinoderms.
Madrier  A thick plank, used for several mechanical purposes
Madrier  A plank to receive the mouth of a petard, with which it is applied to anything intended to be broken down.
Madrier  A plank or beam used for supporting the earth in mines or fortifications.
Madrigal  A little amorous poem, sometimes called a pastoral poem, containing some tender and delicate, though simple, thought.
Madrigal  An unaccompanied polyphonic song, in four, five, or more parts, set to secular words, but full of counterpoint and imitation, and adhering to the old church modes. Unlike the freer glee, it is best sung with several voices on a part. See Glee.
Madrigaler  A madrigalist.
Madrigalist  A composer of madrigals.
Madrilenian  Of or pertaining to Madrid in Spain, or to its inhabitants.
Madrilenian  A native or inhabitant of Madrid.
Madrina  An animal (usually an old mare), wearing a bell and acting as the leader of a troop of pack mules.
Madroa  A small evergreen tree or shrub (Arbutus Menziesii), of California, having a smooth bark, thick shining leaves, and edible red berries, which are often called madroa apples.
Madwort  A genus of cruciferous plants (Alyssum) with white or yellow flowers and rounded pods. A. maritimum is the commonly cultivated sweet alyssum, a fragrant white-flowered annual.
Maegbote  Alt. of Magbote
Magbote  Compensation for the injury done by slaying a kinsman.
Maelstrom  A celebrated whirlpool on the coast of Norway.
Maelstrom  Also Fig. ; as, a maelstrom of vice.
Maenad  A Bacchante; a priestess or votary of Bacchus.
Maenad  A frantic or frenzied woman.
Maestoso  Majestic or majestically; -- a direction to perform a passage or piece of music in a dignified manner.
Maestricht  The Mosasaurus Hofmanni. See Mosasaurus.
Maestro  A master in any art, especially in music; a composer.
Maffle  To stammer.
Maffler  A stammerer.
Magazine  A receptacle in which anything is stored, especially military stores, as ammunition, arms, provisions, etc.
Magazine  The building or room in which the supply of powder is kept in a fortification or a ship.
Magazine  A chamber in a gun for holding a number of cartridges to be fed automatically to the piece.
Magazine  A pamphlet published periodically containing miscellaneous papers or compositions.
Magazined  of Magazine
Magazining  of Magazine
Magazine  To store in, or as in, a magazine; to store up for use.
Magaziner  One who edits or writes for a magazine.
Magazining  The act of editing, or writing for, a magazine.
Magazinist  One who edits or writes for a magazine.
Magbote  See Maegbote.
Magdala  Designating an orange-red dyestuff obtained from naphthylamine, and called magdala red, naphthalene red, etc.
Magdalen  A reformed prostitute.
Magdaleon  A medicine in the form of a roll, a esp. a roll of plaster.
Magdeburg  A city of Saxony.
Mage  A magician.
Magellanic  Of or pertaining to, or named from, Magellan, the navigator.
Magenta  An aniline dye obtained as an amorphous substance having a green bronze surface color, which dissolves to a shade of red; also, the color; -- so called from Magenta, in Italy, in allusion to the battle fought there about the time the dye was discovered. Called also fuchsine, roseine, etc.
Magged  Worn; fretted; as, a magged brace.
Maggiore  Greater, in respect to scales, intervals, etc., when used in opposition to minor; major.
Maggot  The footless larva of any fly. See Larval.
Maggot  A whim; an odd fancy.
Maggotiness  State of being maggoty.
Maggotish  Full of whims or fancies; maggoty.
Maggot-pie  A magpie.
Maggoty  Infested with maggots.
Maggoty  Full of whims; capricious.
Maghet  A name for daisies and camomiles of several kinds.
Magi  A caste of priests, philosophers, and magicians, among the ancient Persians; hence, any holy men or sages of the East.
Magian  Of or pertaining to the Magi.
Magian  One of the Magi, or priests of the Zoroastrian religion in Persia; an adherent of the Zoroastrian religion.
Magic  A comprehensive name for all of the pretended arts which claim to produce effects by the assistance of supernatural beings, or departed spirits, or by a mastery of secret forces in nature attained by a study of occult science, including enchantment, conjuration, witchcraft, sorcery, necromancy, incantation, etc.
Magic  Alt. of Magical
Magical  Pertaining to the hidden wisdom supposed to be possessed by the Magi; relating to the occult powers of nature, and the producing of effects by their agency.
Magical  Performed by, or proceeding from, occult and superhuman agencies; done by, or seemingly done by, enchantment or sorcery. Hence: Seemingly requiring more than human power; imposing or startling in performance; producing effects which seem supernatural or very extraordinary; having extraordinary properties; as, a magic lantern; a magic square or circle.
Magically  In a magical manner; by magic, or as if by magic.
Magician  One skilled in magic; one who practices the black art; an enchanter; a necromancer; a sorcerer or sorceress; a conjurer.
Magilp  Alt. of Magilph
Magilph  See Megilp.
Magister  Master; sir; -- a title of the Middle Ages, given to a person in authority, or to one having a license from a university to teach philosophy and the liberal arts.
Magisterial  Of or pertaining to a master or magistrate, or one in authority; having the manner of a magister; official; commanding; authoritative. Hence: Overbearing; dictatorial; dogmatic.
Magisterial  Pertaining to, produced by, or of the nature of, magistery. See Magistery, 2.
Magisteriality  Magisterialness; authoritativeness.
Magisterially  In a magisterial manner.
Magisterialness  The quality or state of being magisterial.
Magistery  Mastery; powerful medical influence; renowned efficacy; a sovereign remedy.
Magistery  A magisterial injunction.
Magistery  A precipitate; a fine substance deposited by precipitation; -- applied in old chemistry to certain white precipitates from metallic solutions; as, magistery of bismuth.
Magistracies  of Magistracy
Magistracy  The office or dignity of a magistrate.
Magistracy  The collective body of magistrates.
Magistral  Pertaining to a master; magisterial; authoritative; dogmatic.
Magistral  Commanded or prescribed by a magister, esp. by a doctor; hence, effectual; sovereign; as, a magistral sirup.
Magistral  Formulated extemporaneously, or for a special case; -- opposed to officinal, and said of prescriptions and medicines.
Magistral  A sovereign medicine or remedy.
Magistral  A magistral line.
Magistral  Powdered copper pyrites used in the amalgamation of ores of silver, as at the Spanish mines of Mexico and South America.
Magistrality  Magisterialness; arbitrary dogmatism.
Magistrally  In a magistral manner.
Magistrate  A person clothed with power as a public civil officer; a public civil officer invested with the executive government, or some branch of it.
Magistratic  Alt. of Magistratical
Magistratical  Of, pertaining to, or proceeding from, a magistrate; having the authority of a magistrate.
Magistrature  Magistracy.
Magma  Any crude mixture of mineral or organic matters in the state of a thin paste.
Magma  A thick residuum obtained from certain substances after the fluid parts are expressed from them; the grounds which remain after treating a substance with any menstruum, as water or alcohol.
Magma  A salve or confection of thick consistency.
Magma  The molten matter within the earth, the source of the material of lava flows, dikes of eruptive rocks, etc.
Magma  The glassy base of an eruptive rock.
Magma  The amorphous or homogenous matrix or ground mass, as distinguished from well-defined crystals; as, the magma of porphyry.
Magna  The great Charter, so called, obtained by the English barons from King John, A. D. 1215. This name is also given to the charter granted to the people of England in the ninth year of Henry III., and confirmed by Edward I.
Magna  Hence, a fundamental constitution which guaranties rights and privileges.
Magnality  A great act or event; a great attainment.
Magnanimity  The quality of being magnanimous; greatness of mind; elevation or dignity of soul; that quality or combination of qualities, in character, which enables one to encounter danger and trouble with tranquility and firmness, to disdain injustice, meanness and revenge, and to act and sacrifice for noble objects.
Magnanimous  Great of mind; elevated in soul or in sentiment; raised above what is low, mean, or ungenerous; of lofty and courageous spirit; as, a magnanimous character; a magnanimous conqueror.
Magnanimous  Dictated by or exhibiting nobleness of soul; honorable; noble; not selfish.
Magnanimously  In a magnanimous manner; with greatness of mind.
Magnase  A black pigment which dries rapidly when mixed with oil, and is of intense body.
Magnate  A person of rank; a noble or grandee; a person of influence or distinction in any sphere.
Magnate  One of the nobility, or certain high officers of state belonging to the noble estate in the national representation of Hungary, and formerly of Poland.
Magnes  Magnet.
Magnesia  A light earthy white substance, consisting of magnesium oxide, and obtained by heating magnesium hydrate or carbonate, or by burning magnesium. It has a slightly alkaline reaction, and is used in medicine as a mild antacid laxative. See Magnesium.
Magnesian  Pertaining to, characterized by, or containing, magnesia or magnesium.
Magnesic  Pertaining to, or containing, magnesium; as, magnesic oxide.
Magnesite  Native magnesium carbonate occurring in white compact or granular masses, and also in rhombohedral crystals.
Magnesium  A light silver-white metallic element, malleable and ductile, quite permanent in dry air but tarnishing in moist air. It burns, forming (the oxide) magnesia, with the production of a blinding light (the so-called magnesium light) which is used in signaling, in pyrotechny, or in photography where a strong actinic illuminant is required. Its compounds occur abundantly, as in dolomite, talc, meerschaum, etc. Symbol Mg. Atomic weight, 24.4. Specific gravity, 1.75.
Magnet  The loadstone; a species of iron ore (the ferrosoferric or magnetic ore, Fe3O4) which has the property of attracting iron and some of its ores, and, when freely suspended, of pointing to the poles; -- called also natural magnet.
Magnet  A bar or mass of steel or iron to which the peculiar properties of the loadstone have been imparted; -- called, in distinction from the loadstone, an artificial magnet.
Magnetic  Alt. of Magnetical
Magnetical  Pertaining to the magnet; possessing the properties of the magnet, or corresponding properties; as, a magnetic bar of iron; a magnetic needle.
Magnetical  Of or pertaining to, or characterized by, the earth's magnetism; as, the magnetic north; the magnetic meridian.
Magnetical  Capable of becoming a magnet; susceptible to magnetism; as, the magnetic metals.
Magnetical  Endowed with extraordinary personal power to excite the feelings and to win the affections; attractive; inducing attachment.
Magnetical  Having, susceptible to, or induced by, animal magnetism, so called; as, a magnetic sleep. See Magnetism.
Magnetic  A magnet.
Magnetic  Any metal, as iron, nickel, cobalt, etc., which may receive, by any means, the properties of the loadstone, and which then, when suspended, fixes itself in the direction of a magnetic meridian.
Magnetically  By or as by, magnetism.
Magneticalness  Quality of being magnetic.
Magnetician  One versed in the science of magnetism; a magnetist.
Maneticness  Magneticalness.
Magnetics  The science of magnetism.
Magnetiferous  Producing or conducting magnetism.
Magnetism  The property, quality, or state, of being magnetic; the manifestation of the force in nature which is seen in a magnet.
Magnetism  The science which treats of magnetic phenomena.
Magnetism  Power of attraction; power to excite the feelings and to gain the affections.
Magnetist  One versed in magnetism.
Magnetite  An oxide of iron (Fe3O4) occurring in isometric crystals, also massive, of a black color and metallic luster. It is readily attracted by a magnet and sometimes possesses polarity, being then called loadstone. It is an important iron ore. Called also magnetic iron.
Magnetizable  Capable of magnetized.
Magnetization  The act of magnetizing, or the state of being magnetized.
Magnetized  of Magnetize
Magnetizing  of Magnetize
Magnetize  To communicate magnetic properties to; as, to magnetize a needle.
Magnetize  To attract as a magnet attracts, or like a magnet; to move; to influence.
Magnetize  To bring under the influence of animal magnetism.
Magnetizee  A person subjected to the influence of animal magnetism.
Magnetizer  One who, or that which, imparts magnetism.
Magneto-  A prefix meaning pertaining to, produced by, or in some way connected with, magnetism.
Magneto-electric  Alt. of Magneto-electrical
Magneto-electrical  Pertaining to, or characterized by, electricity by the action of magnets; as, magneto-electric induction.
Magneto-electricity  Electricity evolved by the action of magnets.
Magneto-electricity  That branch of science which treats of the development of electricity by the action of magnets; -- the counterpart of electro-magnetism.
Magnetograph  An automatic instrument for registering, by photography or otherwise, the states and variations of any of the terrestrial magnetic elements.
Magnetometer  An instrument for measuring the intensity of magnetic forces; also, less frequently, an instrument for determining any of the terrestrial magnetic elements, as the dip and declination.
Magnetometric  Pertaining to, or employed in, the measurement of magnetic forces; obtained by means of a magnetometer; as, magnetometric instruments; magnetometric measurements.
Magnetomotor  A voltaic series of two or more large plates, producing a great quantity of electricity of low tension, and hence adapted to the exhibition of electro-magnetic phenomena.
Magnetotherapy  The treatment of disease by the application of magnets to the surface of the body.
Magnifiable  Such as can be magnified, or extolled.
Magnific  Alt. of Magnifical
Magnifical  Grand; splendid; illustrious; magnificent.
Magnificat  The song of the Virgin Mary, Luke i. 46; -- so called because it commences with this word in the Vulgate.
Magnificate  To magnify or extol.
Magnification  The act of magnifying; enlargement; exaggeration.
Magnificence  The act of doing what magnificent; the state or quality of being magnificent.
Magnificent  Doing grand things; admirable in action; displaying great power or opulence, especially in building, way of living, and munificence.
Magnificent  Grand in appearance; exhibiting grandeur or splendor; splendid' pompous.
Magnificently  In a Magnificent manner.
Magnificoes  of Magnifico
Magnifico  A grandee or nobleman of Venice; -- so called in courtesy.
Magnifico  A rector of a German university.
Magnifier  One who, or that which, magnifies.
Magnified  of Magnify
Magnifying  of Magnify
Magnify  To make great, or greater; to increase the dimensions of; to amplify; to enlarge, either in fact or in appearance; as, the microscope magnifies the object by a thousand diameters.
Magnify  To increase the importance of; to augment the esteem or respect in which one is held.
Magnify  To praise highly; to land; to extol.
Magnify  To exaggerate; as, to magnify a loss or a difficulty.
Magnify  To have the power of causing objects to appear larger than they really are; to increase the apparent dimensions of objects; as, some lenses magnify but little.
Magnify  To have effect; to be of importance or significance.
Magniloquence  The quality of being magniloquent; pompous discourse; grandiloquence.
Magniloquent  Speaking pompously; using swelling discourse; bombastic; tumid in style; grandiloquent.
Magniloquous  Magniloquent.
Magnitude  Extent of dimensions; size; -- applied to things that have length, breath, and thickness.
Magnitude  That which has one or more of the three dimensions, length, breadth, and thickness.
Magnitude  Anything of which greater or less can be predicated, as time, weight, force, and the like.
Magnitude  Greatness; grandeur.
Magnitude  Greatness, in reference to influence or effect; importance; as, an affair of magnitude.
Magnolia  A genus of American and Asiatic trees, with aromatic bark and large sweet-scented whitish or reddish flowers.
Magnoliaceous  Pertaining to a natural order (Magnoliaceae) of trees of which the magnolia, the tulip tree, and the star anise are examples.
Magnum  A large wine bottle.
Magnum  A bone of the carpus at the base of the third metacarpal bone.
Magot  The Barbary ape.
Magot-pie  A magpie.
Magpie  Any one of numerous species of the genus Pica and related genera, allied to the jays, but having a long graduated tail.
Maguari  A South American stork (Euxenara maguari), having a forked tail.
Maguey  The century plant, a species of Agave (A. Americana). See Agave.
Magyar  One of the dominant people of Hungary, allied to the Finns; a Hungarian.
Magyar  The language of the Magyars.
Maha  A kind of baboon; the wanderoo.
Mahabarata  Alt. of Mahabharatam
Mahabharatam  A celebrated epic poem of the Hindoos. It is of great length, and is chiefly devoted to the history of a civil war between two dynasties of ancient India.
Mahaled  A cherry tree (Prunus Mahaleb) of Southern Europe. The wood is prized by cabinetmakers, the twigs are used for pipe stems, the flowers and leaves yield a perfume, and from the fruit a violet dye and a fermented liquor (like kirschwasser) are prepared.
Maharajah  A sovereign prince in India; -- a title given also to other persons of high rank.
Maharif  An African antelope (Hippotragus Bakeri). Its face is striped with black and white.
Maharmah  A muslin wrapper for the head and the lower part of the face, worn by Turkish and Armenian women when they go abroad.
Mahdi  Among Mohammedans, the last imam or leader of the faithful. The Sunni, the largest sect of the Mohammedans, believe that he is yet to appear.
Mahl-stick  See Maul-stick.
Mahoe  A name given to several malvaceous trees (species of Hibiscus, Ochroma, etc.), and to their strong fibrous inner bark, which is used for strings and cordage.
Mahogany  A large tree of the genus Swietenia (S. Mahogoni), found in tropical America.
Mahogany  The wood of the Swietenia Mahogoni. It is of a reddish brown color, beautifully veined, very hard, and susceptible of a fine polish. It is used in the manufacture of furniture.
Mahogany  A table made of mahogany wood.
Maholi  A South African lemur (Galago maholi), having very large ears.
Mahomedan  Alt. of Mahometan
Mahometan  See Mohammedan.
Mahometanism  See Mohammedanism.
Mahometanized  of Mahometanize
Mahometanizing  of Mahometanize
Mahometanize  To convert to the religion of Mohammed; to Mohammedanize.
Mahometism  See Mohammedanism.
Mahometist  A Mohammedan.
Mahometry  Mohammedanism.
Mahone  A large Turkish ship.
Mahonia  The Oregon grape, a species of barberry (Berberis Aquifolium), often cultivated for its hollylike foliage.
Mahon  An annual cruciferous plant with reddish purple or white flowers (Malcolmia maritima). It is called in England Virginia stock, but the plant comes from the Mediterranean.
Mahoohoo  The African white two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus simus).
Mahori  One of the dark race inhabiting principally the islands of Eastern Polynesia. Also used adjectively.
Mahound  A contemptuous name for Mohammed; hence, an evil spirit; a devil.
Mahout  The keeper and driver of an elephant.
Mahovo  A device for saving power in stopping and starting a railroad car, by means of a heavy fly wheel.
Mahrati  The language of the Mahrattas; the language spoken in the Deccan and Concan.
Mahratta  One of a numerous people inhabiting the southwestern part of India. Also, the language of the Mahrattas; Mahrati. It is closely allied to Sanskrit.
Mahratta  Of or pertaining to the Mahrattas.
Mahumetan  Alt. of Mahumetanism
Mahumetanism  See Mohammedan, Mohammedanism.
Mahwa  An East Indian sapotaceous tree (Bassia latifolia, and also B. butyracea), whose timber is used for wagon wheels, and the flowers for food and in preparing an intoxicating drink. It is one of the butter trees. The oil, known as mahwa and yallah, is obtained from the kernels of the fruit.
Maia  A genus of spider crabs, including the common European species (Maia squinado).
Maia  A beautiful American bombycid moth (Eucronia maia).
Maian  Any spider crab of the genus Maia, or family Maiadae.
Maid  An unmarried woman; usually, a young unmarried woman; esp., a girl; a virgin; a maiden.
Maid  A man who has not had sexual intercourse.
Maid  A female servant.
Maid  The female of a ray or skate, esp. of the gray skate (Raia batis), and of the thornback (R. clavata).
Maiden  An unmarried woman; a girl or woman who has not experienced sexual intercourse; a virgin; a maid.
Maiden  A female servant.
Maiden  An instrument resembling the guillotine, formerly used in Scotland for beheading criminals.
Maiden  A machine for washing linen.
Maiden  Of or pertaining to a maiden, or to maidens; suitable to, or characteristic of, a virgin; as, maiden innocence.
Maiden  Never having been married; not having had sexual intercourse; virgin; -- said usually of the woman, but sometimes of the man; as, a maiden aunt.
Maiden  Fresh; innocent; unpolluted; pure; hitherto unused.
Maiden  Used of a fortress, signifying that it has never been captured, or violated.
Maiden  To act coyly like a maiden; -- with it as an indefinite object.
Maidenhair  A fern of the genus Adiantum (A. pedatum), having very slender graceful stalks. It is common in the United States, and is sometimes used in medicine. The name is also applied to other species of the same genus, as to the Venus-hair.
Maidenhead  The state of being a maiden; maidenhood; virginity.
Maidenhead  The state of being unused or uncontaminated; freshness; purity.
Maidenhead  The hymen, or virginal membrane.
Maidenhood  The state of being a maid or a virgin; virginity.
Maidenhood  Newness; freshness; uncontaminated state.
Maidenlike  Like a maiden; modest; coy.
Maidenliness  The quality of being maidenly; the behavior that becomes a maid; modesty; gentleness.
Maidenly  Like a maid; suiting a maid; maiden-like; gentle, modest, reserved.
Maidenly  In a maidenlike manner.
Maidenship  Maidenhood.
Maidhood  Maidenhood.
Maidmarian  The lady of the May games; one of the characters in a morris dance; a May queen. Afterward, a grotesque character personated in sports and buffoonery by a man in woman's clothes.
Maidmarian  A kind of dance.
Maidpale  Pale, like a sick girl.
Maidservant  A female servant.
Maid's  The yellow bedstraw (Galium verum).
Maieutic  Alt. of Maieutical
Maieutical  Serving to assist childbirth.
Maieutical  Fig. : Aiding, or tending to, the definition and interpretation of thoughts or language.
Maieutics  The art of giving birth (i. e., clearness and conviction) to ideas, which are conceived as struggling for birth.
Maiger  The meagre.
Maigre  Belonging to a fast day or fast; as, a maigre day.
Maihem  See Maim, and Mayhem.
Maikel  A South American carnivore of the genus Conepatus, allied to the skunk, but larger, and having a longer snout. The tail is not bushy.
Maikong  A South American wild dog (Canis cancrivorus); the crab-eating dog.
Mail  A spot.
Mail  A small piece of money; especially, an English silver half-penny of the time of Henry V.
Mail  Rent; tribute.
Mail  A flexible fabric made of metal rings interlinked. It was used especially for defensive armor.
Mail  Hence generally, armor, or any defensive covering.
Mail  A contrivance of interlinked rings, for rubbing off the loose hemp on lines and white cordage.
Mail  Any hard protective covering of an animal, as the scales and plates of reptiles, shell of a lobster, etc.
Mail  To arm with mail.
Mail  To pinion.
Mail  A bag; a wallet.
Mail  The bag or bags with the letters, papers, papers, or other matter contained therein, conveyed under public authority from one post office to another; the whole system of appliances used by government in the conveyance and delivery of mail matter.
Mail  That which comes in the mail; letters, etc., received through the post office.
Mail  A trunk, box, or bag, in which clothing, etc., may be carried.
Mailed  of Mail
Mailing  of Mail
Mail  To deliver into the custody of the postoffice officials, or place in a government letter box, for transmission by mail; to post; as, to mail a letter.
Mailable  Admissible lawfully into the mail.
Mailclad  Protected by a coat of mail; clad in armor.
Mailed  Protected by an external coat, or covering, of scales or plates.
Mailed  Spotted; speckled.
Mailing  A farm.
Mail-shell  A chiton.
Maimed  of Maim
Maiming  of Maim
Maim  To deprive of the use of a limb, so as to render a person on fighting less able either to defend himself or to annoy his adversary.
Maim  To mutilate; to cripple; to injure; to disable; to impair.
Maim  The privation of the use of a limb or member of the body, by which one is rendered less able to defend himself or to annoy his adversary.
Maim  The privation of any necessary part; a crippling; mutilation; injury; deprivation of something essential. See Mayhem.
Maimedly  In a maimed manner.
Maimedness  State of being maimed.
Main  A hand or match at dice.
Main  A stake played for at dice.
Main  The largest throw in a match at dice; a throw at dice within given limits, as in the game of hazard.
Main  A match at cockfighting.
Main  A main-hamper.
Main  Strength; force; might; violent effort.
Main  The chief or principal part; the main or most important thing.
Main  The great sea, as distinguished from an arm, bay, etc. ; the high sea; the ocean.
Main  The continent, as distinguished from an island; the mainland.
Main  principal duct or pipe, as distinguished from lesser ones; esp. (Engin.), a principal pipe leading to or from a reservoir; as, a fire main.
Main  Very or extremely strong.
Main  Vast; huge.
Main  Unqualified; absolute; entire; sheer.
Main  Principal; chief; first in size, rank, importance, etc.
Main  Important; necessary.
Main  Very; extremely; as, main heavy.
Maine  One of the New England States.
Main-gauche  The dagger held in the left hand, while the rapier is held in the right; -- used to parry thrusts of the adversary's rapier.
Main-hamper  A hamper to be carried in the hand; a hand basket used in carrying grapes to the press.
Mainland  The continent; the principal land; -- opposed to island, or peninsula.
Mainly  Very strongly; mightily; to a great degree.
Mainly  Principally; chiefly.
Mainmast  The principal mast in a ship or other vessel.
Mainor  A thing stolen found on the person of the thief.
Mainpernable  Capable of being admitted to give surety by mainpernors; able to be mainprised.
Mainpernor  A surety, under the old writ of mainprise, for a prisoner's appearance in court at a day.
Mainpin  A kingbolt.
Mainprise  A writ directed to the sheriff, commanding him to take sureties, called mainpernors, for the prisoner's appearance, and to let him go at large. This writ is now obsolete.
Mainprise  Deliverance of a prisoner on security for his appearance at a day.
Mainprised  of Mainprise
Mainprising  of Mainprise
Mainprise  To suffer to go at large, on his finding sureties, or mainpernors, for his appearance at a day; -- said of a prisoner.
Mains  The farm attached to a mansion house.
Mainsail  The principal sail in a ship or other vessel.
Mainsheet  One of the ropes by which the mainsail is hauled aft and trimmed.
Mainspring  The principal or most important spring in a piece of mechanism, especially the moving spring of a watch or clock or the spring in a gunlock which impels the hammer. Hence: The chief or most powerful motive; the efficient cause of action.
Mainstay  The stay extending from the foot of the foremast to the maintop.
Mainstay  Main support; principal dependence.
Mainswear  To swear falsely.
Maintained  of Maintain
Maintaining  of Maintain
Maintain  To hold or keep in any particular state or condition; to support; to sustain; to uphold; to keep up; not to suffer to fail or decline; as, to maintain a certain degree of heat in a furnace; to maintain a fence or a railroad; to maintain the digestive process or powers of the stomach; to maintain the fertility of soil; to maintain present reputation.
Maintain  To keep possession of; to hold and defend; not to surrender or relinquish.
Maintain  To continue; not to suffer to cease or fail.
Maintain  To bear the expense of; to support; to keep up; to supply with what is needed.
Maintain  To affirm; to support or defend by argument.
Maintainable  That maybe maintained.
Maintainer  One who maintains.
Maintainor  One who, not being interested, maintains a cause depending between others, by furnishing money, etc., to either party.
Maintenance  The act of maintaining; sustenance; support; defense; vindication.
Maintenance  That which maintains or supports; means of sustenance; supply of necessaries and conveniences.
Maintenance  An officious or unlawful intermeddling in a cause depending between others, by assisting either party with money or means to carry it on. See Champerty.
Maintop  The platform about the head of the mainmast in square-rigged vessels.
Main  The yard on which the mainsail is extended, supported by the mainmast.
Maioid  Of or pertaining to the genus Maia, or family Maiadeae.
Maister  Master.
Maister  Principal; chief.
Maistre  Alt. of Maistry
Maistrie  Alt. of Maistry
Maistry  Mastery; superiority; art. See Mastery.
Maistress  Mistress.
Maithes  Same as Maghet.
Maize  A large species of American grass of the genus Zea (Z. Mays), widely cultivated as a forage and food plant; Indian corn. Also, its seed, growing on cobs, and used as food for men animals.
Majestatic  Alt. of Majestatal
Majestatal  Majestic.
Majestic  Possessing or exhibiting majesty; of august dignity, stateliness, or imposing grandeur; lofty; noble; grand.
Majestical  Majestic.
Majesticness  The quality or state of being majestic.
Majesties  of Majesty
Majesty  The dignity and authority of sovereign power; quality or state which inspires awe or reverence; grandeur; exalted dignity, whether proceeding from rank, character, or bearing; imposing loftiness; stateliness; -- usually applied to the rank and dignity of sovereigns.
Majesty  Hence, used with the possessive pronoun, the title of an emperor, king or queen; -- in this sense taking a plural; as, their majesties attended the concert.
Majesty  Dignity; elevation of manner or style.
Majolica  A kind of pottery, with opaque glazing and showy, which reached its greatest perfection in Italy in the 16th century.
Major  Greater in number, quantity, or extent; as, the major part of the assembly; the major part of the revenue; the major part of the territory.
Major  Of greater dignity; more important.
Major  Of full legal age.
Major  Greater by a semitone, either in interval or in difference of pitch from another tone.
Major  An officer next in rank above a captain and next below a lieutenant colonel; the lowest field officer.
Major  A person of full age.
Major  That premise which contains the major term. It its the first proposition of a regular syllogism; as: No unholy person is qualified for happiness in heaven [the major]. Every man in his natural state is unholy [minor]. Therefore, no man in his natural state is qualified for happiness in heaven [conclusion or inference].
Major  A mayor.
Majorat  The right of succession to property according to age; -- so termed in some of the countries of continental Europe.
Majorat  Property, landed or funded, so attached to a title of honor as to descend with it.
Majorate  The office or rank of a major.
Majorate  To augment; to increase.
Majoration  Increase; enlargement.
Majorcan  Of or pertaining to Majorca.
Majorcan  A native or inhabitant of Majorca.
Major-domo  A man who has authority to act, within certain limits, as master of the house; a steward; also, a chief minister or officer.
Major  An officer of the army holding a rank next above that of brigadier general and next below that of lieutenant general, and who usually commands a division or a corps.
Majorities  of Majority
Majority  The quality or condition of being major or greater; superiority.
Majority  The military rank of a major.
Majority  The condition of being of full age, or authorized by law to manage one's own affairs.
Majority  The greater number; more than half; as, a majority of mankind; a majority of the votes cast.
Majority  Ancestors; ancestry.
Majority  The amount or number by which one aggregate exceeds all other aggregates with which it is contrasted; especially, the number by which the votes for a successful candidate exceed those for all other candidates; as, he is elected by a majority of five hundred votes. See Plurality.
Majorship  The office of major.
Majoun  See Madjoun.
Majusculae  Capital letters, as found in manuscripts of the sixth century and earlier.
Majuscule  A capital letter; especially, one used in ancient manuscripts. See Majusculae.
Makable  Capable of being made.
Makaron  See Macaroon, 2.
Make  A companion; a mate; often, a husband or a wife.
Made  of Make
Making  of Make
Make  To cause to exist; to bring into being; to form; to produce; to frame; to fashion; to create.
Make  To form of materials; to cause to exist in a certain form; to construct; to fabricate.
Make  To produce, as something artificial, unnatural, or false; -- often with up; as, to make up a story.
Make  To bring about; to bring forward; to be the cause or agent of; to effect, do, perform, or execute; -- often used with a noun to form a phrase equivalent to the simple verb that corresponds to such noun; as, to make complaint, for to complain; to make record of, for to record; to make abode, for to abide, etc.
Make  To execute with the requisite formalities; as, to make a bill, note, will, deed, etc.
Make  To gain, as the result of one's efforts; to get, as profit; to make acquisition of; to have accrue or happen to one; as, to make a large profit; to make an error; to make a loss; to make money.
Make  To find, as the result of calculation or computation; to ascertain by enumeration; to find the number or amount of, by reckoning, weighing, measurement, and the like; as, he made the distance of; to travel over; as, the ship makes ten knots an hour; he made the distance in one day.
Make  To put a desired or desirable condition; to cause to thrive.
Make  To cause to be or become; to put into a given state verb, or adjective; to constitute; as, to make known; to make public; to make fast.
Make  To cause to appear to be; to constitute subjectively; to esteem, suppose, or represent.
Make  To require; to constrain; to compel; to force; to cause; to occasion; -- followed by a noun or pronoun and infinitive.
Make  To become; to be, or to be capable of being, changed or fashioned into; to do the part or office of; to furnish the material for; as, he will make a good musician; sweet cider makes sour vinegar; wool makes warm clothing.
Make  To compose, as parts, ingredients, or materials; to constitute; to form; to amount to.
Make  To be engaged or concerned in.
Make  To reach; to attain; to arrive at or in sight of.
Make  To act in a certain manner; to have to do; to manage; to interfere; to be active; -- often in the phrase to meddle or make.
Make  To proceed; to tend; to move; to go; as, he made toward home; the tiger made at the sportsmen.
Make  To tend; to contribute; to have effect; -- with for or against; as, it makes for his advantage.
Make  To increase; to augment; to accrue.
Make  To compose verses; to write poetry; to versify.
Make  Structure, texture, constitution of parts; construction; shape; form.
Makebate  One who excites contentions and quarrels.
Make-belief  A feigning to believe; make believe.
Make-believe  A feigning to believe, as in the play of children; a mere pretense; a fiction; an invention.
Make-believe  Feigned; insincere.
Maked  Made.
Make-game  An object of ridicule; a butt.
Makeless  Matchless.
Makeless  Without a mate.
Make-peace  A peacemaker.
Maker  One who makes, forms, or molds; a manufacturer; specifically, the Creator.
Maker  The person who makes a promissory note.
Maker  One who writes verses; a poet.
Makeshift  That with which one makes shift; a temporary expedient.
Make-up  The way in which the parts of anything are put together; often, the way in which an actor is dressed, painted, etc., in personating a character.
Makeweight  That which is thrown into a scale to make weight; something of little account added to supply a deficiency or fill a gap.
Maki  A lemur. See Lemur.
Making  The act of one who makes; workmanship; fabrication; construction; as, this is cloth of your own making; the making of peace or war was in his power.
Making  Composition, or structure.
Making  a poem.
Making  That which establishes or places in a desirable state or condition; the material of which something may be made; as, early misfortune was the making of him.
Making  External appearance; from.
Making-iron  A tool somewhat like a chisel with a groove in it, used by calkers of ships to finish the seams after the oakum has been driven in.
Making-up  The act of bringing spirits to a certain degree of strength, called proof.
Making-up  The act of becoming reconciled or friendly.
Mal-  A prefix in composition denoting ill,or evil, F. male, adv., fr. malus, bad, ill. In some words it has the form male-, as in malediction, malevolent. See Malice.
Mala  Evils; wrongs; offenses against right and law.
Malabar  A region in the western part of the Peninsula of India, between the mountains and the sea.
Malacatune  See Melocoton.
Malacca  A town and district upon the seacoast of the Malay Peninsula.
Malachite  Native hydrous carbonate of copper, usually occurring in green mammillary masses with concentric fibrous structure.
Malacissant  Softening; relaxing.
Malacissation  The act of making soft or supple.
Malacobdella  A genus of nemertean worms, parasitic in the gill cavity of clams and other bivalves. They have a large posterior sucker, like that of a leech. See Illust. of Bdellomorpha.
Malacoderm  One of a tribe of beetles (Malacodermata), with a soft and flexible body, as the fireflies.
Malacolite  A variety of pyroxene.
Malacologist  One versed in the science of malacology.
Malacology  The science which relates to the structure and habits of mollusks.
Malacopoda  A class of air-breathing Arthropoda; -- called also Protracheata, and Onychophora.
Malacopterygian  One of the Malacopterygii.
Malacopterygii  An order of fishes in which the fin rays, except the anterior ray of the pectoral and dorsal fins, are closely jointed, and not spiny. It includes the carp, pike, salmon, shad, etc. Called also Malacopteri.
Malacopterygious  Belonging to the Malacopterygii.
Malacosteon  A peculiar disease of the bones, in consequence of which they become softened and capable of being bent without breaking.
Malacostomous  Having soft jaws without teeth, as certain fishes.
Malacostraca  A subclass of Crustacea, including Arthrostraca and Thoracostraca, or all those higher than the Entomostraca.
Malacostracan  One of the Malacostraca.
Malacostracology  That branch of zoological science which relates to the crustaceans; -- called also carcinology.
Malacostracous  Belonging to the Malacostraca.
Malacotoon  See Melocoton.
Malacozoa  An extensive group of Invertebrata, including the Mollusca, Brachiopoda, and Bryozoa. Called also Malacozoaria.
Malacozoic  Of or pertaining to the Malacozoa.
Maladdress  Bad address; an awkward, tactless, or offensive way of accosting one or talking with one.
Maladjustment  A bad adjustment.
Maladministration  Bad administration; bad management of any business, especially of public affairs.
Maladroit  Of a quality opposed to adroitness; clumsy; awkward; unskillful.
Maladies  of Malady
Malady  Any disease of the human body; a distemper, disorder, or indisposition, proceeding from impaired, defective, or morbid organic functions; especially, a lingering or deep-seated disorder.
Malady  A moral or mental defect or disorder.
Malaga  A city and a province of Spain, on the Mediterranean. Hence, Malaga grapes, Malaga raisins, Malaga wines.
Malagash  Same as Malagasy.
Malagasy  A native or natives of Madagascar; also (sing.), the language.
Malaise  An indefinite feeling of uneasiness, or of being sick or ill at ease.
Malamate  A salt of malamic acid.
Malambo  A yellowish aromatic bark, used in medicine and perfumery, said to be from the South American shrub Croton Malambo.
Malamethane  A white crystalline substance forming the ethyl salt of malamic acid.
Malamic  Of or pertaining an acid intermediate between malic acid and malamide, and known only by its salts.
Malamide  The acid amide derived from malic acid, as a white crystalline substance metameric with asparagine.
Malanders  A scurfy eruption in the bend of the knee of the fore leg of a horse. See Sallenders.
Malapert  Bold; forward; impudent; saucy; pert.
Malapert  A malapert person.
Malapropism  A grotesque misuse of a word; a word so used.
Malapropos  Unseasonable or unseasonably; unsuitable or unsuitably.
Malapterurus  A genus of African siluroid fishes, including the electric catfishes. See Electric cat, under Electric.
Malar  Of or pertaining to the region of the cheek bone, or to the malar bone; jugal.
Malar  The cheek bone, which forms a part of the lower edge of the orbit.
Malaria  Air infected with some noxious substance capable of engendering disease; esp., an unhealthy exhalation from certain soils, as marshy or wet lands, producing fevers; miasma.
Malaria  A morbid condition produced by exhalations from decaying vegetable matter in contact with moisture, giving rise to fever and ague and many other symptoms characterized by their tendency to recur at definite and usually uniform intervals.
Malarial  Alt. of Malarious
Malarian  Alt. of Malarious
Malarious  Of or pertaining, to or infected by, malaria.
Malashaganay  The fresh-water drumfish (Haploidonotus grunniens).
Malassimilation  Imperfect digestion of the several leading constituents of the food.
Malassimilation  An imperfect elaboration by the tissues of the materials brought to them by the blood.
Malate  A salt of malic acid.
Malax  Alt. of Malaxate
Malaxate  To soften by kneading or stirring with some thinner substance.
Malaxation  The act of softening by mixing with a thinner substance; the formation of ingredients into a mass for pills or plasters.
Malaxator  One who, or that which, malaxates; esp., a machine for grinding, kneading, or stirring into a pasty or doughy mass.
Malay  One of a race of a brown or copper complexion in the Malay Peninsula and the western islands of the Indian Archipelago.
Malay  Alt. of Malayan
Malayan  Of or pertaining to the Malays or their country.
Malayan  The Malay language.
Malayalam  The name given to one the cultivated Dravidian languages, closely related to the Tamil.
Malbrouck  A West African arboreal monkey (Cercopithecus cynosurus).
Malconformation  Imperfect, disproportionate, or abnormal formation; ill form; disproportion of parts.
Malcontent  discontented; uneasy; dissatisfied; especially, dissatisfied with the government.
Malcontent  One who discontented; especially, a discontented subject of a government; one who express his discontent by words or overt acts.
Malcontented  Malcontent.
Maldanian  Any species of marine annelids of the genus Maldane, or family Maldanidae. They have a slender, round body, and make tubes in the sand or mud.
Male-  See Mal-.
Male  Evil; wicked; bad.
Male  Same as Mail, a bag.
Male  Of or pertaining to the sex that begets or procreates young, or (in a wider sense) to the sex that produces spermatozoa, by which the ova are fertilized; not female; as, male organs.
Male  Capable of producing fertilization, but not of bearing fruit; -- said of stamens and antheridia, and of the plants, or parts of plants, which bear them.
Male  Suitable to the male sex; characteristic or suggestive of a male; masculine; as, male courage.
Male  Consisting of males; as, a male choir.
Male  Adapted for entering another corresponding piece (the female piece) which is hollow and which it fits; as, a male gauge, for gauging the size or shape of a hole; a male screw, etc.
Male  An animal of the male sex.
Male  A plant bearing only staminate flowers.
Maleate  A salt of maleic acid.
Malebranchism  The philosophical system of Malebranche, an eminent French metaphysician. The fundamental doctrine of his system is that the mind can not have knowledge of anything external to itself except in its relation to God.
Maleconformation  Malconformation.
Malecontent  Malcontent.
Maledicency  Evil speaking.
Maledicent  Speaking reproachfully; slanderous.
Maledict  Accursed; abominable.
Malediction  A proclaiming of evil against some one; a cursing; imprecation; a curse or execration; -- opposed to benediction.
Malefaction  A crime; an offense; an evil deed.
Malefactor  An evil doer; one who commits a crime; one subject to public prosecution and punishment; a criminal.
Malefactor  One who does wrong by injuring another, although not a criminal.
Malefactress  A female malefactor.
Malefeasance  See Malfeasance.
Malefic  Doing mischief; causing harm or evil; nefarious; hurtful.
Malefice  An evil deed; artifice; enchantment.
Maleficence  Evil doing, esp. to others.
Maleficent  Doing evil to others; harmful; mischievous.
Maleficial  Injurious.
Maleficiate  To bewitch; to harm.
Maleficiation  A bewitching.
Maleficience  The doing of evil, harm, or mischief.
Maleficient  Doing evil, harm, or mischief.
Maleformation  See Malformation.
Maleic  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the ethylene series, metameric with fumaric acid and obtained by heating malic acid.
Malengine  Evil machination; guile; deceit.
Maleo  A bird of Celebes (megacephalon maleo), allied to the brush turkey. It makes mounds in which to lay its eggs.
Male-odor  See Malodor.
Malepractice  See Malpractice.
Male-spirited  Having the spirit of a male; vigorous; courageous.
Malet  A little bag or budget.
Maletreat  See Maltreat.
Malevolence  The quality or state of being malevolent; evil disposition toward another; inclination to injure others; ill will. See Synonym of Malice.
Malevolent  Wishing evil; disposed to injure others; rejoicing in another's misfortune.
Malevolently  In a malevolent manner.
Malevolous  Malevolent.
Malexecution  Bad execution.
Maleyl  A hypothetical radical derived from maleic acid.
Malfeasance  The doing of an act which a person ought not to do; evil conduct; an illegal deed.
Malformation  Ill formation; irregular or anomalous formation; abnormal or wrong conformation or structure.
Malgracious  Not graceful; displeasing.
Malgre  See Mauger.
Malic  Pertaining to, or obtained from, apples; as, malic acid.
Malice  Enmity of heart; malevolence; ill will; a spirit delighting in harm or misfortune to another; a disposition to injure another; a malignant design of evil.
Malice  Any wicked or mischievous intention of the mind; a depraved inclination to mischief; an intention to vex, annoy, or injure another person, or to do a wrongful act without just cause or cause or excuse; a wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others; willfulness.
Malice  To regard with extreme ill will.
Malicho  Mischief.
Malicious  Indulging or exercising malice; harboring ill will or enmity.
Malicious  Proceeding from hatred or ill will; dictated by malice; as, a malicious report; malicious mischief.
Malicious  With wicked or mischievous intentions or motives; wrongful and done intentionally without just cause or excuse; as, a malicious act.
Malign  Having an evil disposition toward others; harboring violent enmity; malevolent; malicious; spiteful; -- opposed to benign.
Malign  Unfavorable; unpropitious; pernicious; tending to injure; as, a malign aspect of planets.
Malign  Malignant; as, a malign ulcer.
Maligned  of Malign
Maligning  of Malign
Malign  To treat with malice; to show hatred toward; to abuse; to wrong; to injure.
Malign  To speak great evil of; to traduce; to defame; to slander; to vilify; to asperse.
Malign  To entertain malice.
Malignance  Alt. of Malignancy
Malignancy  The state or quality of being malignant; extreme malevolence; bitter enmity; malice; as, malignancy of heart.
Malignancy  Unfavorableness; evil nature.
Malignancy  Virulence; tendency to a fatal issue; as, the malignancy of an ulcer or of a fever.
Malignancy  The state of being a malignant.
Malignant  Disposed to do harm, inflict suffering, or cause distress; actuated by extreme malevolence or enmity; virulently inimical; bent on evil; malicious.
Malignant  Characterized or caused by evil intentions; pernicious.
Malignant  Tending to produce death; threatening a fatal issue; virulent; as, malignant diphtheria.
Malignant  A man of extrems enmity or evil intentions.
Malignant  One of the adherents of Charles L. or Charles LL.; -- so called by the opposite party.
Malignantly  In a malignant manner.
Maligner  One who maligns.
Malignified  of Malignify
Malignifying  of Malignify
Malignify  To make malign or malignant.
Malignity  The state or quality of being malignant; disposition to do evil; virulent enmity; malignancy; malice; spite.
Malignity  Virulence; deadly quality.
Malignity  Extreme evilness of nature or influence; perniciousness; heinousness; as, the malignity of fraud.
Malignly  In a malign manner; with malignity.
MAlingered  of Malinger
Malingering  of Malinger
Malinger  To act the part of a malingerer; to feign illness or inability.
Malingerer  In the army, a soldier who feigns himself sick, or who induces or protracts an illness, in order to avoid doing his duty; hence, in general, one who shirks his duty by pretending illness or inability.
Malingery  The spirit or practices of a malingerer; malingering.
Malison  Malediction; curse; execration.
Malkin  Originally, a kitchenmaid; a slattern.
Malkin  A mop made of clouts, used by the kitchen servant.
Malkin  A scarecrow.
Malkin  A mop or sponge attached to a jointed staff for swabbing out a cannon.
Mall  A large heavy wooden beetle; a mallet for driving anything with force; a maul.
Mall  A heavy blow.
Mall  An old game played with malls or mallets and balls. See Pall-mall.
Mall  A place where the game of mall was played. Hence: A public walk; a level shaded walk.
Malled  of Mall
Malling  of Mall
Mall  To beat with a mall; to beat with something heavy; to bruise; to maul.
Mall  Formerly, among Teutonic nations, a meeting of the notables of a state for the transaction of public business, such meeting being a modification of the ancient popular assembly.
Mall  A court of justice.
Mall  A place where justice is administered.
Mall  A place where public meetings are held.
Mallard  A drake; the male of Anas boschas.
Mallard  A large wild duck (Anas boschas) inhabiting both America and Europe. The domestic duck has descended from this species. Called also greenhead.
Malleability  The quality or state of being malleable; -- opposed to friability and brittleness.
Malleable  Capable of being extended or shaped by beating with a hammer, or by the pressure of rollers; -- applied to metals.
Malleableize  To make malleable.
Malleableness  Quality of being malleable.
Malleal  Pertaining to the malleus.
Malleated  of Malleate
Malleating  of Malleate
Malleate  To hammer; to beat into a plate or leaf.
Malleation  The act or process of beating into a plate, sheet, or leaf, as a metal; extension by beating.
Mallecho  Same as Malicho.
Mallee  The leipoa. See Leipoa.
Mallemock  Alt. of Mallemoke
Mallemoke  See Mollemoke.
Mallenders  Same as Malanders.
Malleolar  Of or pertaining to the malleolus; in the region of the malleoli of the ankle joint.
Malleoli  of Malleolus
Malleolus  A projection at the distal end of each bone of the leg at the ankle joint. The malleolus of the tibia is the internal projection, that of the fibula the external.
Malleolus  " A layer, " a shoot partly buried in the ground, and there cut halfway through.
Mallet  A small maul with a short handle, -- used esp. for driving a tool, as a chisel or the like; also, a light beetle with a long handle, -- used in playing croquet.
Mallei  of Malleus
Malleus  The outermost of the three small auditory bones, ossicles; the hammer. It is attached to the tympanic membrane by a long process, the handle or manubrium. See Illust. of Far.
Malleus  One of the hard lateral pieces of the mastax of Rotifera. See Mastax.
Malleus  A genus of bivalve shells; the hammer shell.
Mallophaga  An extensive group of insects which are parasitic on birds and mammals, and feed on the feathers and hair; -- called also bird lice. See Bird louse, under Bird.
Mallotus  A genus of small Arctic fishes. One American species, the capelin (Mallotus villosus), is extensively used as bait for cod.
Mallow  Alt. of Mallows
Mallows  A genus of plants (Malva) having mucilaginous qualities. See Malvaceous.
Mallowwort  Any plant of the order Malvaceae.
Malm  Alt. of Malmbrick
Malmbrick  A kind of brick of a light brown or yellowish color, made of sand, clay, and chalk.
Malma  A spotted trout (Salvelinus malma), inhabiting Northern America, west of the Rocky Mountains; -- called also Dolly Varden trout, bull trout, red-spotted trout, and golet.
Malmag  The tarsius, or spectral lemur.
Malmsey  A kind of sweet wine from Crete, the Canary Islands, etc.
Malnutrition  Faulty or imperfect nutrition.
Malobservation  Erroneous observation.
Malodor  An Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling.
Malonate  At salt of malonic acid.
Malonic  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid produced artifically as a white crystalline substance, CH2.(CO2H)2, and so called because obtained by the oxidation of malic acid.
Malonyl  A hydrocarbon radical, CH2.(CO)2, from malonic acid.
Malpighia  A genus of tropical American shrubs with opposite leaves and small white or reddish flowers. The drupes of Malpighia urens are eaten under the name of Barbadoes cherries.
Malpighiaceous  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of tropical trees and shrubs (Malpighiaceae), some of them climbing plants, and their stems forming many of the curious lianes of South American forests.
Malpighian  Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Marcello Malpighi, an Italian anatomist of the 17th century.
Malposition  A wrong position.
Malpractice  Evil practice; illegal or immoral conduct; practice contrary to established rules; specifically, the treatment of a case by a surgeon or physician in a manner which is contrary to accepted rules and productive of unfavorable results.
Malt  Barley or other grain, steeped in water and dried in a kiln, thus forcing germination until the saccharine principle has been evolved. It is used in brewing and in the distillation of whisky.
Malt  Relating to, containing, or made with, malt.
Malted  of Malt
Malting  of Malt
Malt  To make into malt; as, to malt barley.
Malt  To become malt; also, to make grain into malt.
Maltalent  Ill will; malice.
Maltese  Of or pertaining to Malta or to its inhabitants.
Maltese  A native or inhabitant of Malta; the people of Malta.
Maltha  A variety of bitumen, viscid and tenacious, like pitch, unctuous to the touch, and exhaling a bituminous odor.
Maltha  Mortar.
Malthusian  Of or pertaining to the political economist, the Rev. T. R. Malthus, or conforming to his views; as, Malthusian theories.
Mathusian  A follower of Malthus.
Malthusianism  The system of Malthusian doctrines relating to population.
Maltin  Alt. of Maltine
Maltine  The fermentative principle of malt; malt diastase; also, a name given to various medicinal preparations made from or containing malt.
Malting  The process of making, or of becoming malt.
Maltmen  of Maltman
Maltman  A man whose occupation is to make malt.
Maltonic  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, maltose; specif., designating an acid called also gluconic or dextronic acid. See Gluconic.
Maltose  A crystalline sugar formed from starch by the action of distance of malt, and the amylolytic ferment of saliva and pancreatic juice. It resembles dextrose, but rotates the plane of polarized light further to the right and possesses a lower cupric oxide reducing power.
Maltreated  of Maltreat
Maltreating  of Maltreat
Maltreat  To treat ill; to abuse; to treat roughly.
Maltreament  Ill treatment; ill usage; abuse.
Maltster  A maltman.
Maltworm  A tippler.
Malty  Consisting, or like, malt.
Mala  of Malum
Malum  An evil. See Mala.
Malvaceous  Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Malvaceae), of which the mallow is the type. The cotton plant, hollyhock, and abutilon are of this order, and the baobab and the silk-cotton trees are now referred to it.
Malversation  Evil conduct; fraudulent practices; misbehavior, corruption, or extortion in office.
Malvesie  Malmsey wine. See Malmsey.
Mam  Mamma.
Mama  See Mamma.
Mamaluke  Same as Mameluke.
Mamelon  A rounded hillock; a rounded elevation or protuberance.
Mameluco  A child born of a white father and Indian mother.
Mameluke  One of a body of mounted soldiers recruited from slaves converted to Mohammedanism, who, during several centuries, had more or less control of the government of Egypt, until exterminated or dispersed by Mehemet Ali in 1811.
Mamillated  See Mammillated.
Mamma  Mother; -- word of tenderness and familiarity.
Mammae  of Mamma
Mamma  A glandular organ for secreting milk, characteristic of all mammals, but usually rudimentary in the male; a mammary gland; a breast; under; bag.
Mammals  of Mammal
Mammal  One of the Mammalia.
Mammalia  The highest class of Vertebrata. The young are nourished for a time by milk, or an analogous fluid, secreted by the mammary glands of the mother.
Mammalian  Of or pertaining to the Mammalia or mammals.
Mammaliferous  Containing mammalian remains; -- said of certain strata.
Mammalogical  Of or pertaining to mammalogy.
Mammalogist  One versed in mammalogy.
Mammalogy  The science which relates to mammals or the Mammalia. See Mammalia.
Mammary  Of or pertaining to the mammae or breasts; as, the mammary arteries and veins.
Mammee  A fruit tree of tropical America, belonging to the genus Mammea (M. Americana); also, its fruit. The latter is large, covered with a thick, tough ring, and contains a bright yellow pulp of a pleasant taste and fragrant scent. It is often called mammee apple.
Mammer  To hesitate; to mutter doubtfully.
niere  One who gathers rags and odds and ends; a ragpicker.
niere  A receptacle for rags or shreds.
niere  A movable and ornamental closet or piece of furniture with shelves or drawers.
Naleadministration  Maladministration.
Neyne  Same as Meine.
Nab  The summit of an eminence.
Nab  The cock of a gunlock.
Nab  The keeper, or box into which the lock is shot.
Nabbed  of Nab
Nabbing  of Nab
Nab  To catch or seize suddenly or unexpectedly.
Nabit  Pulverized sugar candy.
Nabk  The edible berries of the Zizyphys Lotus, a tree of Northern Africa, and Southwestern Europe.
Nabob  A deputy or viceroy in India; a governor of a province of the ancient Mogul empire.
Nabob  One who returns to Europe from the East with immense riches: hence, any man of great wealth.
Nacarat  A pale red color, with a cast of orange.
Nacarat  Fine linen or crape dyed of this color.
Nacker  See Nacre.
Nacre  A pearly substance which lines the interior of many shells, and is most perfect in the mother-of-pearl. [Written also nacker and naker.] See Pearl, and Mother-of-pearl.
Nacreous  Consisting of, or resembling, nacre; pearly.
Nad  Alt. of Nadde
Nadde  Had not.
Nadder  An adder.
Nadir  That point of the heavens, or lower hemisphere, directly opposite the zenith; the inferior pole of the horizon; the point of the celestial sphere directly under the place where we stand.
Nadir  The lowest point; the time of greatest depression.
Naenia  See Nenia.
Naeve  A naevus.
Naevoid  Resembling a naevus or naevi; as, naevoid elephantiasis.
Naevose  Spotted; frecled.
Naevi  of Navus
Navus  A spot or mark on the skin of children when born; a birthmark; -- usually applied to vascular tumors, i. e., those consisting mainly of blood vessels, as dilated arteries, veins, or capillaries.
Nag  A small horse; a pony; hence, any horse.
Nag  A paramour; -- in contempt.
Nagged  of Nag
Nagging  of Nag
Nag  To tease in a petty way; to scold habitually; to annoy; to fret pertinaciously.
Nagging  Fault-finding; teasing; persistently annoying; as, a nagging toothache.
Naggy  Irritable; touchy.
Nagor  A West African gazelle (Gazella redunca).
Nagyagite  A mineral of blackish lead-gray color and metallic luster, generally of a foliated massive structure; foliated tellurium. It is a telluride of lead and gold.
Naiad  A water nymph; one of the lower female divinities, fabled to preside over some body of fresh water, as a lake, river, brook, or fountain.
Naiad  Any species of a tribe (Naiades) of freshwater bivalves, including Unio, Anodonta, and numerous allied genera; a river mussel.
Naiad  One of a group of butterflies. See Nymph.
Naiad  Any plant of the order Naiadaceae, such as eelgrass, pondweed, etc.
Naiant  See Natant.
Naid  Any one of numerous species of small, fresh-water, chaetopod annelids of the tribe Naidina. They belong to the Oligochaeta.
Naif  Having a true natural luster without being cut; -- applied by jewelers to a precious stone.
Naif  Naive; as, a naif remark.
Naik  A chief; a leader; a Sepoy corporal.
Nail  the horny scale of plate of epidermis at the end of the fingers and toes of man and many apes.
Nail  The basal thickened portion of the anterior wings of certain hemiptera.
Nail  The terminal horny plate on the beak of ducks, and other allied birds.
Nail  A slender, pointed piece of metal, usually with a head, used for fastening pieces of wood or other material together, by being driven into or through them.
Nail  A measure of length, being two inches and a quarter, or the sixteenth of a yard.
Nailed  of Nail
Nailing  of Nail
Nail  To fasten with a nail or nails; to close up or secure by means of nails; as, to nail boards to the beams.
Nail  To stud or boss with nails, or as with nails.
Nail  To fasten, as with a nail; to bind or hold, as to a bargain or to acquiescence in an argument or assertion; hence, to catch; to trap.
Nail  To spike, as a cannon.
Nailbrush  A brush for cleaning the nails.
Nailer  One whose occupation is to make nails; a nail maker.
Nailer  One who fastens with, or drives, nails.
Naileress  A women who makes nailes.
Naileries  of Nailery
Nailery  A manufactory where nails are made.
Nail-headed  Having a head like that of a nail; formed so as to resemble the head of a nail.
Nailless  Without nails; having no nails.
Nainsook  A thick sort of jaconet muslin, plain or striped, formerly made in India.
Nais  See Naiad.
Naissant  Same as Jessant.
Naive  Having native or unaffected simplicity; ingenuous; artless; frank; as, naive manners; a naive person; naive and unsophisticated remarks.
Naively  In a naive manner.
Naivete  Native simplicity; unaffected plainness or ingenuousness; artlessness.
Naivety  Naivete.
Nake  To make naked.
Naked  Having no clothes on; uncovered; nude; bare; as, a naked body; a naked limb; a naked sword.
Naked  Having no means of defense or protection; open; unarmed; defenseless.
Naked  Unprovided with needful or desirable accessories, means of sustenance, etc.; destitute; unaided; bare.
Naked  Without addition, exaggeration, or excuses; not concealed or disguised; open to view; manifest; plain.
Naked  Mere; simple; plain.
Naked  Without pubescence; as, a naked leaf or stem; bare, or not covered by the customary parts, as a flower without a perianth, a stem without leaves, seeds without a pericarp, buds without bud scales.
Naked  Not having the full complement of tones; -- said of a chord of only two tones, which requires a third tone to be sounded with them to make the combination pleasing to the ear; as, a naked fourth or fifth.
Nakedly  In a naked manner; without covering or disguise; manifestly; simply; barely.
Nakedness  The condition of being naked.
Nakedness  The privy parts; the genitals.
Naker  Same as Nacre.
Naker  A kind of kettledrum.
Nakoo  The gavial.
Nale  Ale; also, an alehouse.
Nall  An awl.
Nam  Am not.
Nam  imp. of Nim.
Namable  Capable of being named.
Namation  A distraining or levying of a distress; an impounding.
Namaycush  A large North American lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush). It is usually spotted with red, and sometimes weighs over forty pounds. Called also Mackinaw trout, lake trout, lake salmon, salmon trout, togue, and tuladi.
Namby-pamby  Talk or writing which is weakly sentimental or affectedly pretty.
Namby-pamby  Affectedly pretty; weakly sentimental; finical; insipid.
Name  The title by which any person or thing is known or designated; a distinctive specific appellation, whether of an individual or a class.
Name  A descriptive or qualifying appellation given to a person or thing, on account of a character or acts.
Name  Reputed character; reputation, good or bad; estimation; fame; especially, illustrious character or fame; honorable estimation; distinction.
Name  Those of a certain name; a race; a family.
Name  A person, an individual.
Named  of Name
Naming  of Name
Name  To give a distinctive name or appellation to; to entitle; to denominate; to style; to call.
Name  To mention by name; to utter or publish the name of; to refer to by distinctive title; to mention.
Name  To designate by name or specifically for any purpose; to nominate; to specify; to appoint; as, to name a day for the wedding.
Name  To designate (a member) by name, as the Speaker does by way of reprimand.
Nameless  Without a name; not having been given a name; as, a nameless star.
Nameless  Undistinguished; not noted or famous.
Nameless  Not known or mentioned by name; anonymous; as, a nameless writer.
Nameless  Unnamable; indescribable; inexpressible.
Namelessly  In a nameless manner.
Namely  By name; by particular mention; specifically; especially; expressly.
Namely  That is to say; to wit; videlicet; -- introducing a particular or specific designation.
Namer  One who names, or calls by name.
Namesake  One that has the same name as another; especially, one called after, or named out of regard to, another.
Namo  No more.
Nan  Anan.
Nandine  An African carnivore (Nandinia binotata), allied to the civets. It is spotted with black.
Nandou  Alt. of Nandu
Nandu  Any one of three species of South American ostriches of the genera Rhea and Pterocnemia. See Rhea.
Nankeen  A species of cloth, of a firm texture, originally brought from China, made of a species of cotton (Gossypium religiosum) that is naturally of a brownish yellow color quite indestructible and permanent.
Nankeen  An imitation of this cloth by artificial coloring.
Nankeen  Trousers made of nankeen.
Nanny  A diminutive of Ann or Anne, the proper name.
Nannyberry  See Sheepberry.
Nanpie  The magpie.
Naos  A term used by modern archaeologists instead of cella. See Cella.
Napped  of Nap
Napping  of Nap
Nap  To have a short sleep; to be drowsy; to doze.
Nap  To be in a careless, secure state.
Nap  A short sleep; a doze; a siesta.
Nap  Woolly or villous surface of felt, cloth, plants, etc.; an external covering of down, of short fine hairs or fibers forming part of the substance of anything, and lying smoothly in one direction; the pile; -- as, the nap of cotton flannel or of broadcloth.
Nap  The loops which are cut to make the pile, in velvet.
Nap  To raise, or put, a nap on.
Nape  The back part of the neck.
Nape-crest  An African bird of the genus Schizorhis, related to the plantain eaters.
Naperies  of Napery
Napery  Table linen; also, linen clothing, or linen in general.
Napha  A perfume distilled from orange flowers.
Naphew  See Navew.
Naphtha  The complex mixture of volatile, liquid, inflammable hydrocarbons, occurring naturally, and usually called crude petroleum, mineral oil, or rock oil. Specifically: That portion of the distillate obtained in the refinement of petroleum which is intermediate between the lighter gasoline and the heavier benzine, and has a specific gravity of about 0.7, -- used as a solvent for varnishes, as a carburetant, illuminant, etc.
Naphtha  One of several volatile inflammable liquids obtained by the distillation of certain carbonaceous materials and resembling the naphtha from petroleum; as, Boghead naphtha, from Boghead coal (obtained at Boghead, Scotland); crude naphtha, or light oil, from coal tar; wood naphtha, from wood, etc.
Naphthalate  A salt of naphthalic acid; a phthalate.
Naphthalene  A white crystalline aromatic hydrocarbon, C10H8, analogous to benzene, and obtained by the distillation of certain bituminous materials, such as the heavy oil of coal tar. It is the type and basis of a large number of derivatives among organic compounds. Formerly called also naphthaline.
Naphthalenic  Pertaining to , or derived from, naphthalene; -- used specifically to designate a yellow crystalline substance, called naphthalenic acid and also hydroxy quinone, and obtained from certain derivatives of naphthol.
Naphthalic  Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, naphthalene; -- used specifically to denote any one of a series of acids derived from naphthalene, and called naphthalene acids.
Naphthalic  Formerly, designating an acid probably identical with phthalic acid.
Naphthalidine  Same as Naphthylamine.
Naphthalin  Alt. of Naphthaline
Naphthaline  See Naphthalene.
Naphthalize  To mingle, saturate, or impregnate, with naphtha.
Naphthazarin  A dyestuff, resembling alizarin, obtained from naphthoquinone as a red crystalline substance with a bright green, metallic luster; -- called also naphthalizarin.
Naphthene  A peculiar hydrocarbon occuring as an ingredient of Caucasian petroleum.
Naphthide  A compound of naphthalene or its radical with a metallic element; as, mercuric naphthide.
Naphthoic  Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, naphthalene; -- used specifically to designate any one of a series of carboxyl derivatives, called naphthoic acids.
Naphthol  Any one of a series of hydroxyl derivatives of naphthalene, analogous to phenol. In general they are crystalline substances with a phenol (carbolic) odor.
Naphthoquinone  A yellow crystalline substance, C10H6O2, analogous to quinone, obtained by oxidizing naphthalene with chromic acid.
Naphthyl  A hydrocarbon radical regarded as the essential residue of naphthalene.
Naphthylamine  One of two basic amido derivatives of naphthalene, C10H7.NH2, forming crystalline solids.
Napierian  Alt. of Naperian
Naperian  Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Napier, or Naper.
Napier's  Alt. of Napier's rods
Napier's  A set of rods, made of bone or other material, each divided into nine spaces, and containing the numbers of a column of the multiplication table; -- a contrivance of Baron Napier, the inventor of logarithms, for facilitating the operations of multiplication and division.
Napiform  Turnip-shaped; large and round in the upper part, and very slender below.
Napkin  A little towel, or small cloth, esp. one for wiping the fingers and mouth at table.
Napkin  A handkerchief.
Napless  Without nap; threadbare.
Naples  See under Yellow.
Napoleon  A French gold coin of twenty francs, or about $3.86.
Napoleonic  Of or pertaining to Napoleon I., or his family; resembling, or having the qualities of, Napoleon I.
Napoleonist  A supporter of the dynasty of the Napoleons.
Nappe  Sheet; surface; all that portion of a surface that is continuous in such a way that it is possible to pass from any one point of the portion to any other point of the portion without leaving the surface. Thus, some hyperboloids have one nappe, and some have two.
Nappiness  The quality of having a nap; abundance of nap, as on cloth.
Napping  The act or process of raising a nap, as on cloth.
Napping  A sheet of partially felted fur before it is united to the hat body.
Nappy  Inclined to sleep; sleepy; as, to feel nappy.
Nappy  Tending to cause sleepiness; serving to make sleepy; strong; heady; as, nappy ale.
Nappy  Having a nap or pile; downy; shaggy.
Nappies  of Nappy
Nappy  A round earthen dish, with a flat bottom and sloping sides.
Nap-taking  A taking by surprise; an unexpected onset or attack.
Napu  A very small chevrotain (Tragulus Javanicus), native of Java. It is about the size of a hare, and is noted for its agility in leaping. Called also Java musk deer, pygmy musk deer, and deerlet.
Napus  A kind of turnip. See Navew.
Narceine  An alkaloid found in small quantities in opium, and extracted as a white crystalline substance of a bitter astringent taste. It is a narcotic. Called also narceia.
Narcissine  Of or pertaining to Narcissus.
Narcissuses  of Narcissus
Narcissus  A genus of endogenous bulbous plants with handsome flowers, having a cup-shaped crown within the six-lobed perianth, and comprising the daffodils and jonquils of several kinds.
Narcissus  A beautiful youth fabled to have been enamored of his own image as seen in a fountain, and to have been changed into the flower called Narcissus.
Narcosis  Privation of sense or consciousness, due to a narcotic.
Narcotic  Having the properties of a narcotic; operating as a narcotic.
Narcotic  A drug which, in medicinal doses, generally allays morbid susceptibility, relieves pain, and produces sleep; but which, in poisonous doses, produces stupor, coma, or convulsions, and, when given in sufficient quantity, causes death. The best examples are opium (with morphine), belladonna (with atropine), and conium.
Narcotical  Narcotic.
Narcotine  An alkaloid found in opium, and extracted as a white crystalline substance, tasteless and less poisonous than morphine; -- called also narcotia.
Narcotinic  Pertaining to narcotine.
Narcotism  Narcosis; the state of being narcotized.
Narcotized  of Narcotize
Narcotizing  of Narcotize
Narcotize  To imbue with, or subject to the influence of, a narcotic; to put into a state of narcosis.
Nard  An East Indian plant (Nardostachys Jatamansi) of the Valerian family, used from remote ages in Oriental perfumery.
Nard  An ointment prepared partly from this plant. See Spikenard.
Nard  A kind of grass (Nardus stricta) of little value, found in Europe and Asia.
Nardine  Of or pertaining to nard; having the qualities of nard.
Nardoo  An Australian name for Marsilea Drummondii, a four-leaved cryptogamous plant, sometimes used for food.
Nare  A nostril.
Nares  The nostrils or nasal openings, -- the anterior nares being the external or proper nostrils, and the posterior nares, the openings of the nasal cavities into the mouth or pharynx.
Nargile  Alt. of Nargileh
Nargileh  An apparatus for smoking tobacco. It has a long flexible tube, and the smoke is drawn through water.
Narica  The brown coati. See Coati.
Nariform  Formed like the nose.
Narine  Of or belonging to the nostrils.
Narrable  Capable of being narrated or told.
Narragansetts  A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited the shores of Narragansett Bay.
Narrated  of Narrate
Narrating  of Narrate
Narrate  To tell, rehearse, or recite, as a story; to relate the particulars of; to go through with in detail, as an incident or transaction; to give an account of.
Narration  The act of telling or relating the particulars of an event; rehearsal; recital.
Narration  That which is related; the relation in words or writing of the particulars of any transaction or event, or of any series of transactions or events; story; history.
Narration  That part of a discourse which recites the time, manner, or consequences of an action, or simply states the facts connected with the subject.
Narrative  Of or pertaining to narration; relating to the particulars of an event or transaction.
Narrative  Apt or inclined to relate stories, or to tell particulars of events; story-telling; garrulous.
Narrative  That which is narrated; the recital of a story; a continuous account of the particulars of an event or transaction; a story.
Narratively  In the style of narration.
Narrator  One who narrates; one who relates a series of events or transactions.
Narratory  Giving an account of events; narrative; as, narratory letters.
Narre  Nearer.
Narrow  Of little breadth; not wide or broad; having little distance from side to side; as, a narrow board; a narrow street; a narrow hem.
Narrow  Of little extent; very limited; circumscribed.
Narrow  Having but a little margin; having barely sufficient space, time, or number, etc.; close; near; -- with special reference to some peril or misfortune; as, a narrow shot; a narrow escape; a narrow majority.
Narrow  Limited as to means; straitened; pinching; as, narrow circumstances.
Narrow  Contracted; of limited scope; illiberal; bigoted; as, a narrow mind; narrow views.
Narrow  Parsimonious; niggardly; covetous; selfish.
Narrow  Scrutinizing in detail; close; accurate; exact.
Narrow  Formed (as a vowel) by a close position of some part of the tongue in relation to the palate; or (according to Bell) by a tense condition of the pharynx; -- distinguished from wide; as e (eve) and / (f/d), etc., from i (ill) and / (f/t), etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 13.
Narrows  of Narrow
Narrow  A narrow passage; esp., a contracted part of a stream, lake, or sea; a strait connecting two bodies of water; -- usually in the plural; as, The Narrows of New York harbor.
Narrowed  of Narrow
Narrowing  of Narrow
Narrow  To lessen the breadth of; to contract; to draw into a smaller compass; to reduce the width or extent of.
Narrow  To contract the reach or sphere of; to make less liberal or more selfish; to limit; to confine; to restrict; as, to narrow one's views or knowledge; to narrow a question in discussion.
Narrow  To contract the size of, as a stocking, by taking two stitches into one.
Narrow  To become less broad; to contract; to become narrower; as, the sea narrows into a strait.
Narrow  Not to step out enough to the one hand or the other; as, a horse narrows.
Narrow  To contract the size of a stocking or other knit article, by taking two stitches into one.
Narrower  One who, or that which, narrows or contracts.
Narrowing  The act of contracting, or of making or becoming less in breadth or extent.
Narrowing  The part of a stocking which is narrowed.
Narrowly  With little breadth; in a narrow manner.
Narrowly  Without much extent; contractedly.
Narrowly  With minute scrutiny; closely; as, to look or watch narrowly; to search narrowly.
Narrowly  With a little margin or space; by a small distance; hence, closely; hardly; barely; only just; -- often with reference to an avoided danger or misfortune; as, he narrowly escaped.
Narrowly  Sparingly; parsimoniously.
Narrow-minded  Of narrow mental scope; illiberal; mean.
Narrowness  The condition or quality of being narrow.
Nart  Art not.
Narthex  A tall umbelliferous plant (Ferula communis). See Giant fennel, under Fennel.
Narthex  The portico in front of ancient churches; sometimes, the atrium or outer court surrounded by ambulatories; -- used, generally, for any vestibule, lobby, or outer porch, leading to the nave of a church.
Narwal  See Narwhal.
Narwe  Narrow.
Narwhal  An arctic cetacean (Monodon monocerous), about twenty feet long. The male usually has one long, twisted, pointed canine tooth, or tusk projecting forward from the upper jaw like a horn, whence it is called also sea unicorn, unicorn fish, and unicorn whale. Sometimes two horns are developed, side by side.
Nas  Was not.
Nas  Has not.
Nasal  Of or pertaining to the nose.
Nasal  Having a quality imparted by means of the nose; and specifically, made by lowering the soft palate, in some cases with closure of the oral passage, the voice thus issuing (wholly or partially) through the nose, as in the consonants m, n, ng (see Guide to Pronunciation, // 20, 208); characterized by resonance in the nasal passage; as, a nasal vowel; a nasal utterance.
Nasal  An elementary sound which is uttered through the nose, or through both the nose and the mouth simultaneously.
Nasal  A medicine that operates through the nose; an errhine.
Nasal  Part of a helmet projecting to protect the nose; a nose guard.
Nasal  One of the nasal bones.
Nasal  A plate, or scale, on the nose of a fish, etc.
Nasality  The quality or state of being nasal.
Nasalization  The act of nasalizing, or the state of being nasalized.
Nasalized  of Nasalize
Nasalizing  of Nasalize
Nasalize  To render nasal, as sound; to insert a nasal or sound in.
Nasalize  To utter words or letters with a nasal sound; to speak through the nose.
Nasally  In a nasal manner; by the nose.
Nascal  A kind of pessary of medicated wool or cotton, formerly used.
Nascency  State of being nascent; birth; beginning; origin.
Nascent  Commencing, or in process of development; beginning to exist or to grow; coming into being; as, a nascent germ.
Nascent  Evolving; being evolved or produced.
Naseberry  A tropical fruit. See Sapodilla.
Nash  Firm; stiff; hard; also, chilly.
Nasicornous  Bearing a horn, or horns, on the nose, as the rhinoceros.
Nasiform  Having the shape of a nose.
Nasion  The middle point of the nasofrontal suture.
Naso-  A combining form denoting pertaining to, or connected with, the nose; as, nasofrontal.
Nasobuccal  Connected with both the nose and the mouth; as, the nasobuccal groove in the skate.
Nasofrontal  Of or pertaining to the nose and the front of the head; as, the embryonic nasofrontal process which forms the anterior boundary of the mouth.
Nasolachrymal  Connected with the lachrymal apparatus and the nose; as, the nasolachrymal, or lachrymal duct.
Nasopalatal  Alt. of Nasopalatine
Nasopalatine  Connected with both the nose and the palate; as, the nasopalatine or incisor, canal connecting the mouth and the nasal chamber in some animals; the nasopalatine nerve.
Nasopharyngeal  Of or pertaining to both throat and nose; as, a nasopharyngeal polypus.
Nasoseptal  Of or pertaining to the internasal septum.
Nasoturbinal  Connected with, or near, both the turbinal and the nasal bones; as, the nasalturbinal bone, made up of the uppermost lammelae of the ethmoturbinal, and sometimes united with the nasal.
Nasoturbinal  The nasoturbinal bone.
Nassas  of Nassa
NassAe  of Nassa
Nassa  Any species of marine gastropods, of the genera Nassa, Tritia, and other allied genera of the family Nassidae; a dog whelk. See Illust. under Gastropoda.
Nastily  In a nasty manner.
Nastiness  The quality or state of being nasty; extreme filthness; dirtiness; also, indecency; obscenity.
Nasturtion  Same as Nasturtium.
Nasturtium  A genus of cruciferous plants, having white or yellowish flowers, including several species of cress. They are found chiefly in wet or damp grounds, and have a pungent biting taste.
Nasturtium  Any plant of the genus Tropaeolum, geraniaceous herbs, having mostly climbing stems, peltate leaves, and spurred flowers, and including the common Indian cress (Tropaeolum majus), the canary-bird flower (T. peregrinum), and about thirty more species, all natives of South America. The whole plant has a warm pungent flavor, and the fleshy fruits are used as a substitute for capers, while the leaves and flowers are sometimes used in salads.
Nasty  Offensively filthy; very dirty, foul, or defiled; disgusting; nauseous.
Nasty  Hence, loosely: Offensive; disagreeable; unpropitious; wet; drizzling; as, a nasty rain, day, sky.
Nasty  Characterized by obcenity; indecent; indelicate; gross; filthy.
Nasute  Having a nice sense of smell.
Nasute  Critically nice; captious.
Nasutness  Quickness of scent; hence, nice discernment; acuteness.
Nat  Not.
Nat  Not at; nor at.
Natal  Of or pertaining to one's birth; accompying or dating from one's birth; native.
Natal  Presiding over nativity; as, natal Jove.
Natalitial  Alt. of Natalitious
Natalitious  Of or pertaining to one's birth or birthday, or one's nativity.
Nataloin  A bitter crystalline substance constituting the essential principle of Natal aloes. Cf. Aloon.
Natal  The drupaceous fruit of two South African shrubs of the genus Arduina (A. bispinosa and A. grandiflora).
Natals  One's birth, or the circumstances attending it.
Natant  Floating in water, as the leaves of water lilies, or submersed, as those of many aquatic plants.
Natant  Placed horizontally across the field, as if swimmimg toward the dexter side; said of all sorts of fishes except the flying fish.
Natantly  In a floating manner; swimmingly.
Natation  The act of floating on the water; swimming.
Natatores  The swimming birds.
Natatorial  Inclined or adapted to swim; swimming; as, natatorial birds.
Natatorious  Adapted for swimming; -- said of the legs of certain insects.
Natatorium  A swimming bath.
Natatory  Adapted for swimming or floating; as, natatory organs.
Natch  The rump of beef; esp., the lower and back part of the rump.
Natchez  A tribe of Indians who formerly lived near the site of the city of Natchez, Mississippi. In 1729 they were subdued by the French; the survivors joined the Creek Confederacy.
Natchnee  An annual grass (Eleusine coracona), cultivated in India as a food plant.
Nates  The buttocks.
Nates  The two anterior of the four lobes on the dorsal side of the midbrain of most mammals; the anterior optic lobes.
Nates  The umbones of a bivalve shell.
Nath  hath not.
Nathless  Nevertheless.
Nathmore  Not the more; never the more.
Naticas  of Natica
NaticAe  of Natica
Natica  Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods belonging to Natica, Lunatia, Neverita, and other allied genera (family Naticidae.) They burrow beneath the sand, or mud, and drill other shells.
Naticoid  Like or belonging to Natica, or the family Naticidae.
Nation  A part, or division, of the people of the earth, distinguished from the rest by common descent, language, or institutions; a race; a stock.
Nation  The body of inhabitants of a country, united under an independent government of their own.
Nation  Family; lineage.
Nation  One of the divisions of university students in a classification according to nativity, formerly common in Europe.
Nation  One of the four divisions (named from the parts of Scotland) in which students were classified according to their nativity.
Nation  A great number; a great deal; -- by way of emphasis; as, a nation of herbs.
National  Of or pertaining to a nation; common to a whole people or race; public; general; as, a national government, language, dress, custom, calamity, etc.
National  Attached to one's own country or nation.
Nationalism  The state of being national; national attachment; nationality.
Nationalism  An idiom, trait, or character peculiar to any nation.
Nationalism  National independence; the principles of the Nationalists.
Nationalist  One who advocates national unity and independence; one of a party favoring Irish independence.
Nationalities  of Nationality
Nationality  The quality of being national, or strongly attached to one's own nation; patriotism.
Nationality  The sum of the qualities which distinguish a nation; national character.
Nationality  A race or people, as determined by common language and character, and not by political bias or divisions; a nation.
Nationality  Existence as a distinct or individual nation; national unity and integrity.
Nationality  The state or quality of belonging to or being connected with a nation or government by nativity, character, ownership, allegiance, etc.
Nationalization  The act of nationalizing, or the state of being nationalized.
Nationalized  of Nationalize
Nationalizing  of Nationalize
Nationalize  To make national; to make a nation of; to endow with the character and habits of a nation, or the peculiar sentiments and attachment of citizens of a nation.
Nationally  In a national manner or way; as a nation.
Nationalness  The quality or state of being national; nationality.
Native  Arising by birth; having an origin; born.
Native  Of or pertaining to one's birth; natal; belonging to the place or the circumstances in which one is born; -- opposed to foreign; as, native land, language, color, etc.
Native  Born in the region in which one lives; as, a native inhabitant, race; grown or originating in the region where used or sold; not foreign or imported; as, native oysters, or strawberries.
Native  Original; constituting the original substance of anything; as, native dust.
Native  Conferred by birth; derived from origin; born with one; inherent; inborn; not acquired; as, native genius, cheerfulness, simplicity, rights, etc.
Native  Naturally related; cognate; connected (with).
Native  Found in nature uncombined with other elements; as, native silver.
Native  Found in nature; not artificial; as native sodium chloride.
Native  One who, or that which, is born in a place or country referred to; a denizen by birth; an animal, a fruit, or vegetable, produced in a certain region; as, a native of France.
Native  Any of the live stock found in a region, as distinguished from such as belong to pure and distinct imported breeds.
Natively  By natural or original condition; naturally; originally.
Nativeness  The quality or state of being native.
Nativism  The disposition to favor the native inhabitants of a country, in preference to immigrants from foreign countries.
Nativism  The doctrine of innate ideas, or that the mind possesses forms of thought independent of sensation.
Nativist  An advocate of nativism.
Nativistic  Relating to nativism.
Nativies  of Nativity
Nativity  The coming into life or into the world; birth; also, the circumstances attending birth, as time, place, manner, etc.
Nativity  A picture representing or symbolizing the early infancy of Christ. The simplest form is the babe in a rude cradle, and the heads of an ox and an ass to express the stable in which he was born.
Nativity  A representation of the positions of the heavenly bodies as the moment of one's birth, supposed to indicate his future destinies; a horoscope.
Natka  A species of shrike.
Natrium  The technical name for sodium.
Natrolite  A zeolite occuring in groups of glassy acicular crystals, and in masses which often have a radiated structure. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and soda.
Natron  Native sodium carbonate.
Natter  To find fault; to be peevish.
Natterjack  A European toad (Bufo calamita), having a yellow line along its back.
Natty  Neat; tidy; spruce.
Natural  Fixed or determined by nature; pertaining to the constitution of a thing; belonging to native character; according to nature; essential; characteristic; not artifical, foreign, assumed, put on, or acquired; as, the natural growth of animals or plants; the natural motion of a gravitating body; natural strength or disposition; the natural heat of the body; natural color.
Natural  Conformed to the order, laws, or actual facts, of nature; consonant to the methods of nature; according to the stated course of things, or in accordance with the laws which govern events, feelings, etc.; not exceptional or violent; legitimate; normal; regular; as, the natural consequence of crime; a natural death.
Natural  Having to do with existing system to things; dealing with, or derived from, the creation, or the world of matter and mind, as known by man; within the scope of human reason or experience; not supernatural; as, a natural law; natural science; history, theology.
Natural  Conformed to truth or reality
Natural  Springing from true sentiment; not artifical or exaggerated; -- said of action, delivery, etc.; as, a natural gesture, tone, etc.
Natural  Resembling the object imitated; true to nature; according to the life; -- said of anything copied or imitated; as, a portrait is natural.
Natural  Having the character or sentiments properly belonging to one's position; not unnatural in feelings.
Natural  Connected by the ties of consanguinity.
Natural  Begotten without the sanction of law; born out of wedlock; illegitimate; bastard; as, a natural child.
Natural  Of or pertaining to the lower or animal nature, as contrasted with the higher or moral powers, or that which is spiritual; being in a state of nature; unregenerate.
Natural  Belonging to, to be taken in, or referred to, some system, in which the base is 1; -- said or certain functions or numbers; as, natural numbers, those commencing at 1; natural sines, cosines, etc., those taken in arcs whose radii are 1.
Natural  Produced by natural organs, as those of the human throat, in distinction from instrumental music.
Natural  Of or pertaining to a key which has neither a flat nor a sharp for its signature, as the key of C major.
Natural  Applied to an air or modulation of harmony which moves by easy and smooth transitions, digressing but little from the original key.
Natural  A native; an aboriginal.
Natural  Natural gifts, impulses, etc.
Natural  One born without the usual powers of reason or understanding; an idiot.
Natural  A character [/] used to contradict, or to remove the effect of, a sharp or flat which has preceded it, and to restore the unaltered note.
Naturalism  A state of nature; conformity to nature.
Naturalism  The doctrine of those who deny a supernatural agency in the miracles and revelations recorded in the Bible, and in spiritual influences; also, any system of philosophy which refers the phenomena of nature to a blind force or forces acting necessarily or according to fixed laws, excluding origination or direction by one intelligent will.
Naturalist  One versed in natural science; a student of natural history, esp. of the natural history of animals.
Naturalist  One who holds or maintains the doctrine of naturalism in religion.
Naturalistic  Belonging to the doctrines of naturalism.
Naturalistic  Closely resembling nature; realistic.
Naturality  Nature; naturalness.
Naturalization  The act or process of naturalizing, esp. of investing an alien with the rights and privileges of a native or citizen; also, the state of being naturalized.
Naturalized  of Naturalize
Naturalizing  of Naturalize
Naturalize  To make natural; as, custom naturalizes labor or study.
Naturalize  To confer the rights and privileges of a native subject or citizen on; to make as if native; to adopt, as a foreigner into a nation or state, and place in the condition of a native subject.
Naturalize  To receive or adopt as native, natural, or vernacular; to make one's own; as, to naturalize foreign words.
Naturalize  To adapt; to accustom; to habituate; to acclimate; to cause to grow as under natural conditions.
Naturalize  To become as if native.
Naturalize  To explain phenomena by natural agencies or laws, to the exclusion of the supernatural.
Naturally  In a natural manner or way; according to the usual course of things; spontaneously.
Naturalness  The state or quality of being natural; conformity to nature.
Nature  The existing system of things; the world of matter, or of matter and mind; the creation; the universe.
Nature  The personified sum and order of causes and effects; the powers which produce existing phenomena, whether in the total or in detail; the agencies which carry on the processes of creation or of being; -- often conceived of as a single and separate entity, embodying the total of all finite agencies and forces as disconnected from a creating or ordering intelligence.
Nature  The established or regular course of things; usual order of events; connection of cause and effect.
Nature  Conformity to that which is natural, as distinguished from that which is artifical, or forced, or remote from actual experience.
Nature  The sum of qualities and attributes which make a person or thing what it is, as distinct from others; native character; inherent or essential qualities or attributes; peculiar constitution or quality of being.
Nature  Hence: Kind, sort; character; quality.
Nature  Physical constitution or existence; the vital powers; the natural life.
Nature  Natural affection or reverence.
Nature  Constitution or quality of mind or character.
Nature  To endow with natural qualities.
Natured  Having (such) a nature, temper, or disposition; disposed; -- used in composition; as, good-natured, ill-natured, etc.
Natureless  Not in accordance with nature; unnatural.
Naturism  The belief or doctrine that attributes everything to nature as a sanative agent.
Naturist  One who believes in, or conforms to, the theory of naturism.
Naturity  The quality or state of being produced by nature.
Naturize  To endow with a nature or qualities; to refer to nature.
Naufrage  Shipwreck; ruin.
Naufragous  causing shipwreck.
Naught  Nothing.
Naught  The arithmetical character 0; a cipher. See Cipher.
Naught  In no degree; not at all.
Naught  Of no value or account; worthless; bad; useless.
Naught  Hence, vile; base; naughty.
Naughtily  In a naughty manner; wickedly; perversely.
Naughtiness  The quality or state of being naughty; perverseness; badness; wickedness.
Naughtly  Naughtily; wrongly.
Naughty  Having little or nothing.
Naughty  Worthless; bad; good for nothing.
Naughty  hence, corrupt; wicked.
Naughty  Mischievous; perverse; froward; guilty of disobedient or improper conduct; as, a naughty child.
Naumachy  A naval battle; esp., a mock sea fight.
Naumachy  A show or spectacle representing a sea fight; also, a place for such exhibitions.
Nauplii  of Nauplius
Nauplius  A crustacean larva having three pairs of locomotive organs (corresponding to the antennules, antennae, and mandibles), a median eye, and little or no segmentation of the body.
Nauropometer  An instrument for measuring the amount which a ship heels at sea.
Nauscopy  The power or act of discovering ships or land at considerable distances.
Nausea  Seasickness; hence, any similar sickness of the stomach accompanied with a propensity to vomit; qualm; squeamishness of the stomach; loathing.
Nauseant  A substance which produces nausea.
Nauseated  of Nauseate
Nauseating  of Nauseate
Nauseate  To become squeamish; to feel nausea; to turn away with disgust.
Nauseate  To affect with nausea; to sicken; to cause to feel loathing or disgust.
Nauseate  To sicken at; to reject with disgust; to loathe.
Nauseation  The act of nauseating, or the state of being nauseated.
Nauseative  Causing nausea; nauseous.
Nauseous  Causing, or fitted to cause, nausea; sickening; loathsome; disgusting; exciting abhorrence; as, a nauseous drug or medicine.
Nautch  An entertainment consisting chiefly of dancing by professional dancing (or Nautch) girls.
Nautic  Nautical.
Nautical  Of or pertaining to seamen, to the art of navigation, or to ships; as, nautical skill.
Nautically  In a nautical manner; with reference to nautical affairs.
Nautiform  Shaped like the hull of a ship.
Nautilite  A fossil nautilus.
Nautiloid  Like or pertaining to the nautilus; shaped like a nautilus shell.
Nautiloid  A mollusk, or shell, of the genus Nautilus or family Nautilidae.
Nautiluses  of Nautilus
Nautili  of Nautilus
Nautilus  The only existing genus of tetrabranchiate cephalopods. About four species are found living in the tropical Pacific, but many other species are found fossil. The shell is spiral, symmetrical, and chambered, or divided into several cavities by simple curved partitions, which are traversed and connected together by a continuous and nearly central tube or siphuncle. See Tetrabranchiata.
Nautilus  The argonaut; -- also called paper nautilus. See Argonauta, and Paper nautilus, under Paper.
Nautilus  A variety of diving bell, the lateral as well as vertical motions of which are controlled, by the occupants.
Navajoes  A tribe of Indians inhabiting New Mexico and Arizona, allied to the Apaches. They are now largely engaged in agriculture.
Naval  Having to do with shipping; of or pertaining to ships or a navy; consisting of ships; as, naval forces, successes, stores, etc.
Navals  Naval affairs.
Navarch  The commander of a fleet.
Navarchy  Nautical skill or experience.
Navarrese  Of or pertaining to Navarre.
Navarrese  A native or inhabitant of Navarre; the people of Navarre.
Nave  The block in the center of a wheel, from which the spokes radiate, and through which the axle passes; -- called also hub or hob.
Nave  The navel.
Nave  The middle or body of a church, extending from the transepts to the principal entrances, or, if there are no transepts, from the choir to the principal entrance, but not including the aisles.
Navel  A mark or depression in the middle of the abdomen; the umbilicus. See Umbilicus.
Navel  The central part or point of anything; the middle.
Navel  An eye on the under side of a carronade for securing it to a carriage.
Navel-string  The umbilical cord.
Navelwort  A European perennial succulent herb (Cotyledon umbilicus), having round, peltate leaves with a central depression; -- also called pennywort, and kidneywort.
Navew  A kind of small turnip, a variety of Brassica campestris. See Brassica.
Navicular  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a boat or ship.
Navicular  Shaped like a boat; cymbiform; scaphoid; as, the navicular glumes of most grasses; the navicular bone.
Navicular  The navicular bone.
Navigability  The quality or condition of being navigable; navigableness.
Navigable  Capable of being navigated; deep enough and wide enough to afford passage to vessels; as, a navigable river.
Navigated  of Navigate
Navigating  of Navigate
Navigate  To joirney by water; to go in a vessel or ship; to perform the duties of a navigator; to use the waters as a highway or channel for commerce or communication; to sail.
Navigate  To pass over in ships; to sail over or on; as, to navigate the Atlantic.
Navigate  To steer, direct, or manage in sailing; to conduct (ships) upon the water by the art or skill of seamen; as, to navigate a ship.
Navigation  The act of navigating; the act of passing on water in ships or other vessels; the state of being navigable.
Navigation  the science or art of conducting ships or vessels from one place to another, including, more especially, the method of determining a ship's position, course, distance passed over, etc., on the surface of the globe, by the principles of geometry and astronomy.
Navigation  The management of sails, rudder, etc.; the mechanics of traveling by water; seamanship.
Navigation  Ships in general.
Navigator  One who navigates or sails; esp., one who direct the course of a ship, or one who is skillful in the art of navigation; also, a book which teaches the art of navigation; as, Bowditch's Navigator.
Navigerous  Bearing ships; capable of floating vessels.
Navies  of Navvy
Navvy  Originally, a laborer on canals for internal navigation; hence, a laborer on other public works, as in building railroads, embankments, etc.
Navies  of Navy
Navy  A fleet of ships; an assemblage of merchantmen, or so many as sail in company.
Navy  The whole of the war vessels belonging to a nation or ruler, considered collectively; as, the navy of Italy.
Navy  The officers and men attached to the war vessels of a nation; as, he belongs to the navy.
Nawab  A deputy ruler or viceroy in India; also, a title given by courtesy to other persons of high rank in the East.
Nawl  An awl.
Nay  No; -- a negative answer to a question asked, or a request made, now superseded by no. See Yes.
Nay  Not this merely, but also; not only so, but; -- used to mark the addition or substitution of a more explicit or more emphatic phrase.
Nays  of Nay
Nay  Denial; refusal.
Nay  a negative vote; one who votes in the negative.
Nay  To refuse.
Nayaur  A specied of wild sheep (Ovis Hodgsonii), native of Nepaul and Thibet. It has a dorsal mane and a white ruff beneath the neck.
Nayt  To refuse; to deny.
Nayward  The negative side.
Nayword  A byword; a proverb; also, a watchword.
Nazarene  A native or inhabitant of Nazareth; -- a term of contempt applied to Christ and the early Christians.
Nazarene  One of a sect of Judaizing Christians in the first and second centuries, who observed the laws of Moses, and held to certain heresies.
Nazarite  A Jew bound by a vow to lave the hair uncut, to abstain from wine and strong drink, and to practice extraordinary purity of life and devotion, the obligation being for life, or for a certain time. The word is also used adjectively.
Nazariteship  The state of a Nazarite.
Nazaritic  Of or pertaining to a Nazarite, or to Nazarites.
Nazaritism  The vow and practice of a Nazarite.
Naze  A promotory or headland.
Nazirite  A Nazarite.
Neaf  See 2d Neif.
Neal  To anneal.
Neal  To be tempered by heat.
Neap  The tongue or pole of a cart or other vehicle drawn by two animals.
Neap  Low.
Neap  A neap tide.
Neaped  Left aground on the height of a spring tide, so that it will not float till the next spring tide; -- called also beneaped.
Neapolitan  Of of pertaining to Naples in Italy.
Neapolitan  A native or citizen of Naples.
Near  At a little distance, in place, time, manner, or degree; not remote; nigh.
Near  Nearly; almost; well-nigh.
Near  Closely; intimately.
Near  Not far distant in time, place, or degree; not remote; close at hand; adjacent; neighboring; nigh.
Near  Closely connected or related.
Near  Close to one's interests, affection, etc.; touching, or affecting intimately; intimate; dear; as, a near friend.
Near  Close to anything followed or imitated; not free, loose, or rambling; as, a version near to the original.
Near  So as barely to avoid or pass injury or loss; close; narrow; as, a near escape.
Near  Next to the driver, when he is on foot; in the Unted States, on the left of an animal or a team; as, the near ox; the near leg. See Off side, under Off, a.
Near  Immediate; direct; close; short.
Near  Close-fisted; parsimonious.
Near  Adjacent to; close by; not far from; nigh; as, the ship sailed near the land. See the Note under near, a.
Neared  of Near
Nearing  of Near
Near  To approach; to come nearer; as, the ship neared the land.
Near  To draw near; to approach.
Nearctic  Of or pertaining to a region of the earth's surface including all of temperate and arctic North America and Greenland. In the geographical distribution of animals, this region is marked off as the habitat certain species.
Nearhand  Near; near at hand; closely.
Near-legged  Having the feet so near together that they interfere in traveling.
Nearly  In a near manner; not remotely; closely; intimately; almost.
Nearness  The state or quality of being near; -- used in the various senses of the adjective.
Nearsighted  Seeing distinctly at short distances only; shortsighted.
Nearsightedness  See Myopic, and Myopia.
Neat  Cattle of the genus Bos, as distinguished from horses, sheep, and goats; an animal of the genus Bos; as, a neat's tongue; a neat's foot.
Neat  Of or pertaining to the genus Bos, or to cattle of that genus; as, neat cattle.
Neat  Free from that which soils, defiles, or disorders; clean; cleanly; tidy.
Neat  Free from what is unbecoming, inappropriate, or tawdry; simple and becoming; pleasing with simplicity; tasteful; chaste; as, a neat style; a neat dress.
Neat  Free from admixture or adulteration; good of its kind; as, neat brandy.
Neat  Excellent in character, skill, or performance, etc.; nice; finished; adroit; as, a neat design; a neat thief.
Neat  With all deductions or allowances made; net. [In this sense usually written net. See Net, a., 3.]
Neatherd  A person who has the care of neat cattle; a cowherd.
Neathouse  A building for the shelter of neat cattle.
Neatify  To make neat.
Neatly  In a neat manner; tidily; tastefully.
neatness  The state or quality of being neat.
Neatress  A woman who takes care of cattle.
Neb  The nose; the snout; the mouth; the beak of a bird; a nib, as of a pen.
Nebalia  A genus of small marine Crustacea, considered the type of a distinct order (Nebaloidea, or Phyllocarida.)
Neb-neb  Same as Bablh.
Nebulae  of Nebula
Nebula  A faint, cloudlike, self-luminous mass of matter situated beyond the solar system among the stars. True nebulae are gaseous; but very distant star clusters often appear like them in the telescope.
Nebula  A white spot or a slight opacity of the cornea.
Nebula  A cloudy appearance in the urine.
Nebular  Of or pertaining to nebulae; of the nature of, or resembling, a nebula.
Nebulated  Clouded with indistinct color markings, as an animal.
nebulation  The condition of being nebulated; also, a clouded, or ill-defined, color mark.
Nebule  A little cloud; a cloud.
Nebule  Alt. of Nebuly
Nebuly  Composed of successive short curves supposed to resemble a cloud; -- said of a heraldic line by which an ordinary or subordinary may be bounded.
Nebulization  The act or process of nebulizing; atomization.
Nebulize  To reduce (as a liquid) to a fine spray or vapor; to atomize.
Nebulizer  An atomizer.
Nebulose  Nebulous; cloudy.
Nebulosity  The state or quality of being nebulous; cloudiness; hazeness; mistiness; nebulousness.
Nebulosity  The stuff of which a nebula is formed.
Nebulosity  A nebula.
Nebulous  Cloudy; hazy; misty.
Nebulous  Of, pertaining to, or having the appearance of, a nebula; nebular; cloudlike.
Nebuly  A line or a direction composed of successive short curves or waves supposed to resembe a cloud. See NEbulE
Necessarian  An advocate of the doctrine of philosophical necessity; a nacessitarian.
Necessarian  Of or pertaining to necessarianism.
Necessarianism  The doctrine of philosophical necessity; necessitarianism.
Necessarily  In a necessary manner; by necessity; unavoidably; indispensably.
Necessariness  The quality of being necessary.
Necessary  Such as must be; impossible to be otherwise; not to be avoided; inevitable.
Necessary  Impossible to be otherwise, or to be dispensed with, without preventing the attainment of a desired result; indispensable; requiste; essential.
Necessary  Acting from necessity or compulsion; involuntary; -- opposed to free; as, whether man is a necessary or a free agent is a question much discussed.
Necessaries  of Necessary
Necessary  A thing that is necessary or indispensable to some purpose; something that one can not do without; a requisite; an essential; -- used chiefly in the plural; as, the necessaries of life.
Necessary  A privy; a water-closet.
Necessary  Such things, in respect to infants, lunatics, and married women, as are requisite for support suitable to station.
Necessitarian  Of or pertaining to the doctrine of philosophical necessity in regard to the origin and existence of things, especially as applied to the actings or choices of the will; -- opposed to libertarian.
Necessitarian  One who holds to the doctrine of necessitarianism.
Necessitarianism  The doctrine of philosophical necessity; the doctrine that results follow by invariable sequence from causes, and esp. that the will is not free, but that human actions and choices result inevitably from motives; deteminism.
Necessitated  of Necessitate
Necessitating  of Necessitate
Necessitate  To make necessary or indispensable; to render unaviolable.
Necessitate  To reduce to the necessity of; to force; to compel.
Necessitattion  The act of making necessary, or the state of being made necessary; compulsion.
Necessitied  In a state of want; necessitous.
Necessitous  Very needy or indigent; pressed with poverty.
Necessitous  Narrow; destitute; pinching; pinched; as, necessitous circumstances.
Necessitude  Necessitousness; want.
Necessitude  Necessary connection or relation.
Necessities  of Necessity
Necessity  The quality or state of being necessary, unavoidable, or absolutely requisite; inevitableness; indispensableness.
Necessity  The condition of being needy or necessitous; pressing need; indigence; want.
Necessity  That which is necessary; a necessary; a requisite; something indispensable; -- often in the plural.
Necessity  That which makes an act or an event unavoidable; irresistible force; overruling power; compulsion, physical or moral; fate; fatality.
Necessity  The negation of freedom in voluntary action; the subjection of all phenomena, whether material or spiritual, to inevitable causation; necessitarianism.
Neck  The part of an animal which connects the head and the trunk, and which, in man and many other animals, is more slender than the trunk.
Neck  Any part of an inanimate object corresponding to or resembling the neck of an animal
Neck  The long slender part of a vessel, as a retort, or of a fruit, as a gourd.
Neck  A long narrow tract of land projecting from the main body, or a narrow tract connecting two larger tracts.
Neck  That part of a violin, guitar, or similar instrument, which extends from the head to the body, and on which is the finger board or fret board.
Neck  A reduction in size near the end of an object, formed by a groove around it; as, a neck forming the journal of a shaft.
Neck  the point where the base of the stem of a plant arises from the root.
Necked  of Neck
Necking  of Neck
Neck  To reduce the diameter of (an object) near its end, by making a groove around it; -- used with down; as, to neck down a shaft.
Neck  To kiss and caress amorously.
Neckar  See Nicker nut.
Neckband  A band which goes around the neck; often, the part at the top of a garment.
Neckcloth  A piece of any fabric worn around the neck.
Necked  Having (such) a neck; -- chiefly used in composition; as, stiff-necked.
Necked  Cracked; -- said of a treenail.
Neckerchief  A kerchief for the neck; -- called also neck handkerchief.
Necking  Same as Neckmold.
Necklace  A string of beads, etc., or any continuous band or chain, worn around the neck as an ornament.
Necklace  A rope or chain fitted around the masthead to hold hanging blocks for jibs and stays.
necklaced  Wearing a necklace; marked as with a necklace.
neckland  A neck of land.
necklet  A necklace.
Neckmold  Alt. of Neckmould
Neckmould  A small convex molding surrounding a column at the jinction of the shaft and capital.
Neckplate  See Gorget, 1 and 2.
Necktie  A scarf, band, or kerchief of silk, etc., passing around the neck or collar and tied in front; a bow of silk, etc., fastened in front of the neck.
Neckwear  A collective term for cravats, collars, etc.
Neckweed  An American annual weed (veronica peregrina), with small white flowers and a roundish pod.
Neckweed  The hemp; -- so called as furnishing ropes for hanging criminals.
Necrobiosis  The death of a part by molecular disintegration and without loss of continuity, as in the processes of degeneration and atrophy.
Necrobiotic  Of or pertaining to necrobiosis; as, a necrobiotic metamorphosis.
Necrolatry  The worship of the dead; manes worship.
Necrolite  Same as Necronite.
Necrologic  Alt. of Necrological
Necrological  Of or pertaining to necrology; of the nature of necrology; relating to, or giving, an account of the dead, or of deaths.
Necrologist  One who gives an account of deaths.
Necrologies  of Necrology
Necrology  An account of deaths, or of the dead; a register of deaths; a collection of obituary notices.
Necromancer  One who practices necromancy; a sorcerer; a wizard.
Necromancy  The art of revealing future events by means of a pretended communication with the dead; the black art; hence, magic in general; conjuration; enchantment. See Black art.
Necromantic  Conjuration.
Necromantic  Alt. of Necromantical
Necromantical  Of or pertaining to necromancy; performed by necromancy.
Necronite  Fetid feldspar, a mineral which, when struck, exhales a fetid odor.
Necrophagan  Eating carrion.
Necrophagan  Any species of a tribe (Necrophaga) of beetles which, in the larval state, feed on carrion; a burying beetle.
Necrophagous  Of or pertaining to the Necrophaga; eating carrion. See Necrophagan.
Necrophobia  An exaggerated fear of death or horror of dead bodies.
Necrophore  Any one of numerous species of beetles of the genus Necrophorus and allied genera; -- called also burying beetle, carrion beetle, sexton beetle.
Necropolises  of Necropolis
Necropolis  A city of the dead; a name given by the ancients to their cemeteries, and sometimes applied to modern burial places; a graveyard.
Necropsy  A post-mortem examination or inspection; an autopsy. See Autopsy.
Necroscopic  Alt. of Necroscopical
Necroscopical  Or or relating to post-mortem examinations.
Necrose  To affect with necrosis; to unergo necrosis.
Necrosed  Affected by necrosis; dead; as, a necrosed bone.
Necrosis  Mortification or gangrene of bone, or the death of a bone or portion of a bone in mass, as opposed to its death by molecular disintegration. See Caries.
Necrosis  A disease of trees, in which the branches gradually dry up from the bark to the center.
Necrotic  Affected with necrosis; as, necrotic tissue; characterized by, or producing, necrosis; as, a necrotic process.
Nectar  The drink of the gods (as ambrosia was their food); hence, any delicious or inspiring beverage.
Nectar  A sweetish secretion of blossoms from which bees make honey.
Nectareal  Nectareous.
Nectareal  Of or pertaining to a nectary.
Nectarean  Resembling nectar; very sweet and pleasant.
Nectared  Imbued with nectar; mingled with nectar; abounding with nectar.
Nectareous  Of, pertaining to, containing, or resembling nectar; delicious; nectarean.
Nectarial  Of or pertaining to the nectary of a plant.
Nectaried  Having a nectary.
Nectariferous  Secreting nectar; -- said of blossoms or their parts.
Nectarine  Nectareous.
Nectarine  A smooth-skinned variety of peach.
Nectarized  of Nectarize
Nectarizing  of Nectarize
Nectarize  To mingle or infuse with nectar; to sweeten.
Nectarous  Nectareous.
Nectaries  of Nectary
Nectary  That part of a blossom which secretes nectar, usually the base of the corolla or petals; also, the spur of such flowers as the larkspur and columbine, whether nectariferous or not. See the Illustration of Nasturtium.
Nectocalyces  of Nectocalyx
Nectocalyx  The swimming bell or umbrella of a jellyfish of medusa.
Nectocalyx  One of the zooids of certain Siphonophora, having somewhat the form, and the essential structure, of the bell of a jellyfish, and acting as a swimming organ.
Nectosac  Alt. of Nectosack
Nectosack  The cavity of a nectocalyx.
Nectostem  That portion of the axis which bears the nectocalyces in the Siphonophora.
Nedder  An adder.
Neddies  of Neddy
Neddy  A pet name for a donkey.
Nee  Born; -- a term sometimes used in introducing the name of the family to which a married woman belongs by birth; as, Madame de Stael, nee Necker.
Need  A state that requires supply or relief; pressing occasion for something; necessity; urgent want.
Need  Want of the means of subsistence; poverty; indigence; destitution.
Need  That which is needful; anything necessary to be done; (pl.) necessary things; business.
Need  Situation of need; peril; danger.
Needed  of Need
Needing  of Need
Need  To be in want of; to have cause or occasion for; to lack; to require, as supply or relief.
Need  To be wanted; to be necessary.
Need  Of necessity. See Needs.
Needer  One who needs anything.
Needful  Full of need; in need or want; needy; distressing.
Needful  Necessary for supply or relief; requisite.
Needily  In a needy condition or manner; necessarily.
Neediness  The state or quality of being needy; want; poverty; indigence.
Needle  A small instrument of steel, sharply pointed at one end, with an eye to receive a thread, -- used in sewing.
Needle  See Magnetic needle, under Magnetic.
Needle  A slender rod or wire used in knitting; a knitting needle; also, a hooked instrument which carries the thread or twine, and by means of which knots or loops are formed in the process of netting, knitting, or crocheting.
Needle  One of the needle-shaped secondary leaves of pine trees. See Pinus.
Needle  Any slender, pointed object, like a needle, as a pointed crystal, a sharp pinnacle of rock, an obelisk, etc.
Needle  To form in the shape of a needle; as, to needle crystals.
Needle  To form needles; to crystallize in the form of needles.
Needlebook  A book-shaped needlecase, having leaves of cloth into which the needles are stuck.
Needlecase  A case to keep needles.
Needlefish  The European great pipefich (Siphostoma, / Syngnathus, acus); -- called also earl, and tanglefish.
Needlefish  The garfish.
needlefuls  of needleful
needleful  As much thread as is used in a needle at one time.
Needle-pointed  Pointed as needles.
Needler  One who makes or uses needles; also, a dealer in needles.
Needless  Having no need.
Needless  Not wanted; unnecessary; not requiste; as, needless labor; needless expenses.
Needless  Without sufficient cause; groundless; cuseless.
Needlestone  Natrolite; -- called also needle zeolite.
Needlewomen  of Needlewoman
Needlewoman  A woman who does needlework; a seamstress.
Needlework  Work executed with a needle; sewed work; sewing; embroidery; also, the business of a seamstress.
Needlework  The combination of timber and plaster making the outside framework of some houses.
Needly  Like a needle or needles; as, a needly horn; a needly beard.
Needly  Necessarily; of necessity.
Needment  Something needed or wanted.
Needment  Outfit; necessary luggage.
Needs  Of necessity; necessarily; indispensably; -- often with must, and equivalent to of need.
Needscost  Of necessity.
Needsly  Of necessity.
Needy  Distressed by want of the means of living; very por; indigent; necessitous.
Needy  Necessary; requiste.
Neeld  Alt. of Neele
Neele  A needle.
Neelghau  See Nylghau.
Neem  An Asiatic name for Melia Azadirachta, and M. Azedarach. See Margosa.
Neer  Nearer.
Ne'er  a contraction of Never.
Neesed  of Neese
Neesing  of Neese
Neese  To sneeze.
Neesing  Sneezing.
Nef  The nave of a church.
Nefand  Alt. of Nefandous
Nefandous  Unfit to speak of; unmentionable; impious; execrable.
Nefarious  Wicked in the extreme; abominable; iniquitous; atrociously villainous; execrable; detestably vile.
Nefasch  Any fish of the genus Distichodus. Several large species inhabit the Nile.
Nefast  Wicked.
Negation  The act of denying; assertion of the nonreality or untruthfulness of anything; declaration that something is not, or has not been, or will not be; denial; -- the opposite of affirmation.
Negation  Description or definition by denial, exclusion, or exception; statement of what a thing is not, or has not, from which may be inferred what it is or has.
Negative  Denying; implying, containing, or asserting denial, negation or refusal; returning the answer no to an inquiry or request; refusing assent; as, a negative answer; a negative opinion; -- opposed to affirmative.
Negative  Not positive; without affirmative statement or demonstration; indirect; consisting in the absence of something; privative; as, a negative argument; a negative morality; negative criticism.
Negative  Asserting absence of connection between a subject and a predicate; as, a negative proposition.
Negative  Of or pertaining to a picture upon glass or other material, in which the lights and shades of the original, and the relations of right and left, are reversed.
Negative  Metalloidal; nonmetallic; -- contracted with positive or basic; as, the nitro group is negative.
Negative  A proposition by which something is denied or forbidden; a conception or term formed by prefixing the negative particle to one which is positive; an opposite or contradictory term or conception.
Negative  A word used in denial or refusal; as, not, no.
Negative  The refusal or withholding of assents; veto.
Negative  That side of a question which denies or refuses, or which is taken by an opposing or denying party; the relation or position of denial or opposition; as, the question was decided in the negative.
Negative  A picture upon glass or other material, in which the light portions of the original are represented in some opaque material (usually reduced silver), and the dark portions by the uncovered and transparent or semitransparent ground of the picture.
Negative  The negative plate of a voltaic or electrolytic cell.
Negatived  of Negative
Negativing  of Negative
Negative  To prove unreal or intrue; to disprove.
Negative  To reject by vote; to refuse to enact or sanction; as, the Senate negatived the bill.
Negative  To neutralize the force of; to counteract.
Negatively  In a negative manner; with or by denial.
Negatively  In the form of speech implying the absence of something; -- opposed to positively.
Negativeness  Alt. of Negativity
Negativity  The quality or state of being negative.
Negatory  Expressing denial; belonging to negation; negative.
Neginoth  Stringed instruments.
Neglected  of Neglect
Neglecting  of Neglect
Neglect  Not to attend to with due care or attention; to forbear one's duty in regard to; to suffer to pass unimproved, unheeded, undone, etc.; to omit; to disregard; to slight; as, to neglect duty or business; to neglect to pay debts.
Neglect  To omit to notice; to forbear to treat with attention or respect; to slight; as, to neglect strangers.
Neglect  Omission of proper attention; avoidance or disregard of duty, from heedlessness, indifference, or willfulness; failure to do, use, or heed anything; culpable disregard; as, neglect of business, of health, of economy.
Neglect  Omission if attention or civilities; slight; as, neglect of strangers.
Neglect  Habitual carelessness; negligence.
Neglect  The state of being disregarded, slighted, or neglected.
Neglectedness  The state of being neglected.
Neglecter  One who neglects.
Neglectful  Full of neglect; heedless; careless; negligent; inattentive; indifferent.
Neglectingly  Carelessly; heedlessly.
Neglection  The state of being negligent; negligence.
Neglective  Neglectful.
Negligee  An easy, unceremonious attire; undress; also, a kind of easy robe or dressing gown worn by women.
Negligence  The quality or state of being negligent; lack of due diligence or care; omission of duty; habitual neglect; heedlessness.
Negligence  An act or instance of negligence or carelessness.
Negligence  The omission of the care usual under the circumstances, being convertible with the Roman culpa. A specialist is bound to higher skill and diligence in his specialty than one who is not a specialist, and liability for negligence varies acordingly.
Negligent  Apt to neglect; customarily neglectful; characterized by negligence; careless; heedless; culpably careless; showing lack of attention; as, disposed in negligent order.
Negligently  In a negligent manner.
Negligible  That may neglicted, disregarded, or left out of consideration.
Negoce  Business; occupation.
Negotiability  The quality of being negotiable or transferable by indorsement.
Negotiable  Capable of being negotiated; transferable by assigment or indorsement to another person; as, a negotiable note or bill of exchange.
Negotiant  A negotiator.
Negotiate  To transact business; to carry on trade.
Negotiate  To treat with another respecting purchase and sale or some business affair; to bargain or trade; as, to negotiate with a man for the purchase of goods or a farm.
Negotiate  To hold intercourse respecting a treaty, league, or convention; to treat with, respecting peace or commerce; to conduct communications or conferences.
Negotiate  To intrigue; to scheme.
Negotiated  of Negotiate
Negotiating  of Negotiate
Negotiate  To carry on negotiations concerning; to procure or arrange for by negotiation; as, to negotiate peace, or an exchange.
Negotiate  To transfer for a valuable consideration under rules of commercial law; to sell; to pass.
Negotiation  The act or process of negotiating; a treating with another respecting sale or purchase. etc.
Negotiation  Hence, mercantile business; trading.
Negotiation  The transaction of business between nations; the mutual intercourse of governments by diplomatic agents, in making treaties, composing difference, etc.; as, the negotiations at Ghent.
Negotiator  One who negotiates; a person who treats with others, either as principal or agent, in respect to purchase and sale, or public compacts.
Negotiatory  Of or pertaining to negotiation.
Negotiatrix  A woman who negotiates.
Negotiosity  The state of being busy; multitude of business.
Negotious  Very busy; attentive to business; active.
Negotiousness  The state of being busily occupied; activity.
Negresses  of Negress
Negress  A black woman; a female negro.
Negrita  A blackish fish (Hypoplectrus nigricans), of the Sea-bass family. It is a native of the West Indies and Florida.
Negritic  Of or pertaining to negroes; composed of negroes.
Negritos  A degraded Papuan race, inhabiting Luzon and some of the other east Indian Islands. They resemble negroes, but are smaller in size. They are mostly nomads.
Negroes  of Negro
Negro  A black man; especially, one of a race of black or very dark persons who inhabit the greater part of tropical Africa, and are distinguished by crisped or curly hair, flat noses, and thick protruding lips; also, any black person of unmixed African blood, wherever found.
Negro  Of or pertaining to negroes; black.
Negroid  Characteristic of the negro.
Negroid  Resembling the negro or negroes; of or pertaining to those who resemble the negro.
Negroloid  See Negroid.
Negus  A beverage made of wine, water, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon juice; -- so called, it is said, from its first maker, Colonel Negus.
Nehiloth  A term supposed to mean, perforated wind instruments of music, as pipes or flutes.
Nehushtan  A thing of brass; -- the name under which the Israelites worshiped the brazen serpent made by Moses.
Neif  Alt. of Neife
Neife  A woman born in the state of villeinage; a female serf.
Neif  Alt. of Neaf
Neaf  The fist.
Neighed  of Neigh
Neighing  of Neigh
Neigh  To utter the cry of the horse; to whinny.
Neigh  To scoff or sneer; to jeer.
Neigh  The cry of a horse; a whinny.
Neighbor  A person who lives near another; one whose abode is not far off.
Neighbor  One who is near in sympathy or confidence.
Neighbor  One entitled to, or exhibiting, neighborly kindness; hence, one of the human race; a fellow being.
Neighbor  Near to another; adjoining; adjacent; next; neighboring.
Neighbored  of neighbor
Neighboring  of neighbor
neighbor  To adjoin; to border on; tobe near to.
neighbor  To associate intimately with.
Neighbor  To dwell in the vicinity; to be a neighbor, or in the neighborhood; to be near.
Neighborhood  The quality or condition of being a neighbor; the state of being or dwelling near; proximity.
Neighborhood  A place near; vicinity; adjoining district; a region the inhabitants of which may be counted as neighbors; as, he lives in my neighborhood.
Neighborhood  The inhabitants who live in the vicinity of each other; as, the fire alarmed all the neiborhood.
Neighborhood  The disposition becoming a neighbor; neighborly kindness or good will.
Neighboring  Living or being near; adjacent; as, the neighboring nations or countries.
Neighborliness  The quality or state of being neighborly.
Neighborly  Apropriate to the relation of neighbors; having frequent or familiar intercourse; kind; civil; social; friendly.
Neighborly  In a neigborly manner.
Neighborship  The state of being neighbors.
Neishout  The mahogany-like wood of the South African tree Pteroxylon utile, the sawdust of which causes violent sneezing (whence the name). Also called sneezewood.
Neither  Not either; not the one or the other.
Neither  not either; generally used to introduce the first of two or more coordinate clauses of which those that follow begin with nor.
Nelumbo  A genus of great water lilies. The North American species is Nelumbo lutea, the Asiatic is the sacred lotus, N. speciosa.
Nemaline  Having the form of threads; fibrous.
Nemalite  A fibrous variety of brucite.
Nematelmia  Same as Nemathelminthes.
Nemathecia  of Nemathecium
Nemathecium  A peculiar kind of fructification on certain red algae, consisting of an external mass of filaments at length separating into tetraspores.
Nemthelminthes  Alt. of Nematelminthes
Nematelminthes  An ordr of helminths, including the Nematoidea and Gordiacea; the roundworms.
Nemato-  A combining form from Gr. nh^ma, nh`matos, a thread.
Nematoblast  A spermatocyte or spermoblast.
Nematocalyces  of Nematocalyx
Nematocalyx  One of a peculiar kind of cups, or calicles, found upon hydroids of the family Plumularidae. They contain nematocysts. See Plumularia.
Nematocera  A suborder of dipterous insects, having long antennae, as the mosquito, gnat, and crane fly; -- called also Nemocera.
Nematocyst  A lasso cell, or thread cell. See Lasso cell, under Lasso.
Nematode  Same as Nematoid.
Nematogene  One of the dimorphic forms of the species of Dicyemata, which produced vermiform embryos; -- opposed to rhombogene.
Nematognath  one of the Nematognathi.
Nematognathi  An order of fishes having barbels on the jaws. It includes the catfishes, or siluroids. See Siluroid.
Nematoid  Of or pertaining to the Nematoidea.
Nematoid  One of the Nematoidea. see Illustration in Appendix.
Nematoidea  An order of worms, having a long, round, and generally smooth body; the roundworms. they are mostly parasites. Called also Nematodea, and Nematoda.
Nematoidean  Nematoid.
Nematophora  Same as Coelenterata.
Nemean  Of or pertaining to Nemea, in Argolis, where the ancient Greeks celebrated games, and Hercules killed a lion.
Nemetean  Of or pertaining to the Nemertina.
Nemetean  One of the Nemertina.
Nemertes  A genus of nemertina.
Nemertian  Nemertean.
Nemertid  Nemertean.
Nemertida  Nemertina.
Nemertina  An order of helminths usually having a long, slender, smooth, often bright-colored body, covered with minute vibrating cilia; -- called also Nemertea, Nemertida, and Rhynchocoela.
Nemesis  The goddess of retribution or vengeance; hence, retributive justice personified; divine vengeance.
Nemophilist  One who is fond of forest or forest scenery; a haunter of the woods.
Nemophily  Fondness for forest scenery; love of the woods.
Nemoral  Of or pertaining to a wood or grove.
Nemorous  Woody.
Nempne  To name or call.
Nempt  Called; named.
Nems  The ichneumon.
Nenia  A funeral song; an elegy.
Nenuphar  The great white water lily of Europe; the Nymphaea alba.
Neo-  A prefix meaning new, recent, late; and in chemistry designating specifically that variety of metameric hydrocarbons which, when the name was applied, had been recently classified, and in which at least one carbon atom in connected directly with four other carbon atoms; -- contrasted with normal and iso-; as, neopentane; the neoparaffins. Also used adjectively.
Neocarida  The modern, or true, Crustacea, as distinguished from the Merostomata.
Neocene  More recent than the Eocene, that is, including both the Miocene and Pliocene divisions of the Tertiary.
Neo-Christianity  Rationalism.
Neocomian  A term applied to the lowest deposits of the Cretaceous or chalk formation of Europe, being the lower greensand.
Neocomian  Of or pertaining to the lower greensand.
Neocosmic  Of or pertaining to the universe in its present state; specifically, pertaining to the races of men known to history.
Neocracy  Government by new or inexperienced hands; upstart rule; raw or untried officials.
Neodamode  In ancient Sparta, one of those Helots who were freed by the state in reward for military service.
Neodymium  An elementary substance which forms one of the constituents of didymium. Symbol Nd. Atomic weight 140.8.
Neogaean  Of or pertaining to the New World, or Western Hemisphere.
Neogamist  A person recently married.
Neogen  An alloy resembling silver, and consisting chiefly of copper, zinc, and nickel, with small proportions of tin, aluminium, and bismuth.
Neography  A new method or system of writing.
Neo-Latin  Applied to the Romance languages, as being mostly of Latin origin.
Neolithic  Of or pertaining to, or designating, an era characterized by late remains in stone.
Neologian  Neologic; neological.
Neologian  A neologist.
Neologianism  Neologism.
Neologic  Alt. of Neological
Neological  Of or pertaining to neology; employing new words; of the nature of, or containing, new words or new doctrines.
Neologically  In a neological manner.
Neologism  The introduction of new words, or the use of old words in a new sense.
Neologism  A new word, phrase, or expression.
Neologism  A new doctrine; specifically, rationalism.
Neologist  One who introduces new words or new senses of old words into a language.
Neologist  An innovator in any doctrine or system of belief, especially in theology; one who introduces or holds doctrines subversive of supernatural or revealed religion; a rationalist, so-called.
Neologistic  Alt. of Neologistical
Neologistical  Of or pertaining to neology; neological.
Neologization  The act or process of neologizing.
Neologize  To introduce or use new words or terms or new uses of old words.
Neologize  To introduce innovations in doctrine, esp. in theological doctrine.
Neology  The introduction of a new word, or of words or significations, into a language; as, the present nomenclature of chemistry is a remarkable instance of neology.
Neology  A new doctrine; esp. (Theol.), a doctrine at variance with the received interpretation of revealed truth; a new method of theological interpretation; rationalism.
Neomenia  The time of the new moon; the beginning of the month in the lunar calendar.
Neomenoidea  A division of vermiform gastropod mollusks, without a shell, belonging to the Isopleura.
Neomorph  A structure, part, or organ developed independently, that is, not derived from a similar structure, part, or organ, in a pre existing form.
Neonism  Neologism.
Neonomian  One who advocates adheres to new laws; esp. one who holds or believes that the gospel is a new law.
Neonomian  Of or pertaining to the Neonomians, or in accordance with their doctrines.
Neonomianism  The doctrines or belief of the neonomians.
Neophyte  A new convert or proselyte; -- a name given by the early Christians, and still given by the Roman Catholics, to such as have recently embraced the Christian faith, and been admitted to baptism, esp. to converts from heathenism or Judaism.
Neophyte  A novice; a tyro; a beginner in anything.
Neoplasia  Growth or development of new material; neoplasty.
Neoplasm  A new formation or tissue, the product of morbid action.
Neoplastic  Of or pertaining to neoplasty, or neoplasia.
Neoplasty  Restoration of a part by granulation, adhesive inflammation, or autoplasty.
Neoplatonic  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Neoplatonism or the Neoplatonists.
Neoplatonician  A neoplatonist.
Neoplatonism  A pantheistic eclectic school of philosophy, of which Plotinus was the chief (A. D. 205-270), and which sought to reconcile the Platonic and Aristotelian systems with Oriental theosophy. It tended to mysticism and theurgy, and was the last product of Greek philosophy.
Neoplatonist  One who held to Neoplatonism; a member of the Neoplatonic school.
Neorama  A panorama of the interior of a building, seen from within.
Neossine  The substance constituting the edible bird's nest.
Our  of I
Ours  of I
Ourselves  of Myself
O's  of O
Oes  of O
Oad  See Woad.
Oaf  Originally, an elf's child; a changeling left by fairies or goblins; hence, a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an idiot.
Oafish  Like an oaf; simple.
Oak  Any tree or shrub of the genus Quercus. The oaks have alternate leaves, often variously lobed, and staminate flowers in catkins. The fruit is a smooth nut, called an acorn, which is more or less inclosed in a scaly involucre called the cup or cupule. There are now recognized about three hundred species, of which nearly fifty occur in the United States, the rest in Europe, Asia, and the other parts of North America, a very few barely reaching the northern parts of South America and Africa. Many of the oaks form forest trees of grand proportions and live many centuries. The wood is usually hard and tough, and provided with conspicuous medullary rays, forming the silver grain.
Oak  The strong wood or timber of the oak.
Oaken  Made or consisting of oaks or of the wood of oaks.
Oaker  See Ocher.
Oakling  A young oak.
Oakum  The material obtained by untwisting and picking into loose fiber old hemp ropes; -- used for calking the seams of ships, stopping leaks, etc.
Oakum  The coarse portion separated from flax or hemp in nackling.
Oaky  Resembling oak; strong.
Oar  An implement for impelling a boat, being a slender piece of timber, usually ash or spruce, with a grip or handle at one end and a broad blade at the other. The part which rests in the rowlock is called the loom.
Oar  An oarsman; a rower; as, he is a good oar.
Oar  An oarlike swimming organ of various invertebrates.
Oared  of Oar
Oaring  of Oar
Oar  To row.
Oared  Furnished with oars; -- chiefly used in composition; as, a four-oared boat.
Oared  Having feet adapted for swimming.
Oared  Totipalmate; -- said of the feet of certain birds. See Illust. of Aves.
Oarfish  The ribbon fish.
Oarfoot  Any crustacean of the genus Remipes.
Oar-footed  Having feet adapted for swimming.
Oarless  Without oars.
Oarlock  The notch, fork, or other device on the gunwale of a boat, in which the oar rests in rowing. See Rowlock.
Oarsmen  of Oarsman
Oarsman  One who uses, or is skilled in the use of, an oar; a rower.
Oarsweed  Any large seaweed of the genus Laminaria; tangle; kelp. See Kelp.
Oary  Having the form or the use of an oar; as, the swan's oary feet.
Oases  of Oasis
Oasis  A fertile or green spot in a waste or desert, esp. in a sandy desert.
Oast  A kiln to dry hops or malt; a cockle.
Oats  of Oat
Oat  A well-known cereal grass (Avena sativa), and its edible grain; -- commonly used in the plural and in a collective sense.
Oat  A musical pipe made of oat straw.
Oatcake  A cake made of oatmeal.
Oaten  Consisting of an oat straw or stem; as, an oaten pipe.
Oaten  Made of oatmeal; as, oaten cakes.
Oaths  of Oath
Oath  A solemn affirmation or declaration, made with a reverent appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed.
Oath  A solemn affirmation, connected with a sacred object, or one regarded as sacred, as the temple, the altar, the blood of Abel, the Bible, the Koran, etc.
Oath  An appeal (in verification of a statement made) to a superior sanction, in such a form as exposes the party making the appeal to an indictment for perjury if the statement be false.
Oath  A careless and blasphemous use of the name of the divine Being, or anything divine or sacred, by way of appeal or as a profane exclamation or ejaculation; an expression of profane swearing.
Oathable  Capable of having an oath administered to.
Oathbreaking  The violation of an oath; perjury.
Oatmeal  Meal made of oats.
Oatmeal  A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass.
Ob-  A prefix signifying to, toward, before, against, reversely, etc.; also, as a simple intensive; as in oblige, to bind to; obstacle, something standing before; object, lit., to throw against; obovate, reversely, ovate. Ob- is commonly assimilated before c, f, g, and p, to oc-, of-, og-, and op-.
Obcompressed  Compressed or flattened antero-posteriorly, or in a way opposite to the usual one.
Obconic  Alt. of Obconical
Obconical  Conical, but having the apex downward; inversely conical.
Obcordate  Heart-shaped, with the attachment at the pointed end; inversely cordate: as, an obcordate petal or leaf.
Obdiplostemonous  Having twice as many stamens as petals, those of the outer set being opposite the petals; -- said of flowers.
Obdiplostemony  The condition of being obdiplostemonous.
Obdormition  Sleep.
Obduce  To draw over, as a covering.
Obduct  To draw over; to cover.
Obduction  The act of drawing or laying over, as a covering.
Obduracy  The duality or state of being obdurate; invincible hardness of heart; obstinacy.
Obdurate  Hardened in feelings, esp. against moral or mollifying influences; unyielding; hard-hearted; stubbornly wicked.
Obdurate  Hard; harsh; rugged; rough; intractable.
Obdurate  To harden.
Obduration  A hardening of the heart; hardness of heart.
Obdure  To harden.
Obdure  Alt. of Obdured
Obdured  Obdurate; hard.
Obdureness  Alt. of Obduredness
Obduredness  Hardness.
Obbe  See Obi.
Obeah  Same as Obi.
Obeah  Of or pertaining to obi; as, the obeah man.
Obedible  Obedient.
Obedience  The act of obeying, or the state of being obedient; compliance with that which is required by authority; subjection to rightful restraint or control.
Obedience  Words or actions denoting submission to authority; dutifulness.
Obedience  A following; a body of adherents; as, the Roman Catholic obedience, or the whole body of persons who submit to the authority of the pope.
Obedience  A cell (or offshoot of a larger monastery) governed by a prior.
Obedience  One of the three monastic vows.
Obedience  The written precept of a superior in a religious order or congregation to a subject.
Obedienciary  One yielding obedience.
Obedient  Subject in will or act to authority; willing to obey; submissive to restraint, control, or command.
Obediential  According to the rule of obedience.
Obediently  In an obedient manner; with obedience.
Obeisance  Obedience.
Obeisance  A manifestation of obedience; an expression of difference or respect; homage; a bow; a courtesy.
Obeisancy  See Obeisance.
Obeisant  Ready to obey; reverent; differential; also, servilely submissive.
Obelion  The region of the skull between the two parietal foramina where the closure of the sagittal suture usually begins.
Obeliscal  Formed like an obelisk.
Obelisk  An upright, four-sided pillar, gradually tapering as it rises, and terminating in a pyramid called pyramidion. It is ordinarily monolithic. Egyptian obelisks are commonly covered with hieroglyphic writing from top to bottom.
Obelisk  A mark of reference; -- called also dagger [/]. See Dagger, n., 2.
Obelisked  of Obelisk
Obelisking  of Obelisk
Obelisk  To mark or designate with an obelisk.
Obelized  of Obelize
Obelizing  of Obelize
Obelize  To designate with an obelus; to mark as doubtful or spirituous.
Obeli  of Obelus
Obelus  A mark [thus /, or  ]; -- so called as resembling a needle. In old MSS. or editions of the classics, it marks suspected passages or readings.
Obequitate  To ride about.
Oberon  The king of the fairies, and husband of Titania or Queen Mab.
Oberration  A wandering about.
Obese  Excessively corpulent; fat; fleshy.
Obeseness  Quality of being obese; obesity.
Obesity  The state or quality of being obese; incumbrance of flesh.
Obeyed  of Obey
Obeying  of Obey
Obey  To give ear to; to execute the commands of; to yield submission to; to comply with the orders of.
Obey  To submit to the authority of; to be ruled by.
Obey  To yield to the impulse, power, or operation of; as, a ship obeys her helm.
Obey  To give obedience.
Obeyer  One who yields obedience.
Obeyingly  Obediently; submissively.
Obfirm  Alt. of Obfirmate
Obfirmate  To make firm; to harden in resolution.
Obfirmation  Hardness of heart; obduracy.
Obfuscate  Obfuscated; darkened; obscured.
Obfuscated  of Obfuscate
Obfuscating  of Obfuscate
Obfuscate  To darken; to obscure; to becloud; hence, to confuse; to bewilder.
Obfuscation  The act of darkening or bewildering; the state of being darkened.
Obi  A species of sorcery, probably of African origin, practiced among the negroes of the West Indies.
Obi  A charm or fetich.
Obimbricate  Imbricated, with the overlapping ends directed downward.
Obit  Death; decease; the date of one's death.
Obit  A funeral solemnity or office; obsequies.
Obit  A service for the soul of a deceased person on the anniversary of the day of his death.
Obiter  In passing; incidentally; by the way.
Obitual  Of or pertaining to obits, or days when obits are celebrated; as, obitual days.
Obituarily  In the manner of an obituary.
Obiyuary  Of or pertaining to the death of a person or persons; as, an obituary notice; obituary poetry.
Obituaries  of Obituary
Obituary  That which pertains to, or is called forth by, the obit or death of a person; esp., an account of a deceased person; a notice of the death of a person, accompanied by a biographical sketch.
Obituary  A list of the dead, or a register of anniversary days when service is performed for the dead.
Objected  of Object
Objecting  of Object
Object  To set before or against; to bring into opposition; to oppose.
Object  To offer in opposition as a criminal charge or by way of accusation or reproach; to adduce as an objection or adverse reason.
Object  To make opposition in words or argument; -- usually followed by to.
Object  That which is put, or which may be regarded as put, in the way of some of the senses; something visible or tangible; as, he observed an object in the distance; all the objects in sight; he touched a strange object in the dark.
Object  That which is set, or which may be regarded as set, before the mind so as to be apprehended or known; that of which the mind by any of its activities takes cognizance, whether a thing external in space or a conception formed by the mind itself; as, an object of knowledge, wonder, fear, thought, study, etc.
Object  That by which the mind, or any of its activities, is directed; that on which the purpose are fixed as the end of action or effort; that which is sought for; end; aim; motive; final cause.
Object  Sight; show; appearance; aspect.
Object  A word, phrase, or clause toward which an action is directed, or is considered to be directed; as, the object of a transitive verb.
Object  Opposed; presented in opposition; also, exposed.
Objectable  Such as can be presented in opposition; that may be put forward as an objection.
Objectify  To cause to become an object; to cause to assume the character of an object; to render objective.
Objection  The act of objecting; as, to prevent agreement, or action, by objection.
Objection  That which is, or may be, presented in opposition; an adverse reason or argument; a reason for objecting; obstacle; impediment; as, I have no objection to going; unreasonable objections.
Objection  Cause of trouble; sorrow.
Objectionable  Liable to objection; likely to be objected to or disapproved of; offensive; as, objectionable words.
Objectist  One who adheres to, or is skilled in, the objective philosophy.
Objectivate  To objectify.
Objectivation  Converting into an object.
Objective  Of or pertaining to an object.
Objective  Of or pertaining to an object; contained in, or having the nature or position of, an object; outward; external; extrinsic; -- an epithet applied to whatever ir exterior to the mind, or which is simply an object of thought or feeling, and opposed to subjective.
Objective  Pertaining to, or designating, the case which follows a transitive verb or a preposition, being that case in which the direct object of the verb is placed. See Accusative, n.
Objective  The objective case.
Objective  An object glass. See under Object, n.
Objective  Same as Objective point, under Objective, a.
Objectively  In the manner or state of an object; as, a determinate idea objectively in the mind.
Objectiveness  Objectivity.
Objectivity  The state, quality, or relation of being objective; character of the object or of the objective.
Obectize  To make an object of; to regard as an object; to place in the position of an object.
Objectless  Having no object; purposeless.
Objector  One who objects; one who offers objections to a proposition or measure.
Objibways  See Chippeways.
Objicient  One who makes objection; an objector.
Objuration  A binding by oath.
Objurgated  of Objurgate
Objurgating  of Objurgate
Objurgate  To chide; to reprove.
Objurgation  The act of objurgating; reproof.
Objurgatory  Designed to objurgate or chide; containing or expressing reproof; culpatory.
Oblanceolate  Lanceolate in the reversed order, that is, narrowing toward the point of attachment more than toward the apex.
Oblate  Flattened or depressed at the poles; as, the earth is an oblate spheroid.
Oblate  Offered up; devoted; consecrated; dedicated; -- used chiefly or only in the titles of Roman Catholic orders. See Oblate, n.
Oblate  One of an association of priests or religious women who have offered themselves to the service of the church. There are three such associations of priests, and one of women, called oblates.
Oblate  One of the Oblati.
Oblateness  The quality or state of being oblate.
Oblati  Children dedicated in their early years to the monastic state.
Oblati  A class of persons, especially in the Middle Ages, who offered themselves and their property to a monastery.
Oblation  The act of offering, or of making an offering.
Oblation  Anything offered or presented in worship or sacred service; an offering; a sacrifice.
Oblation  A gift or contribution made to a church, as for the expenses of the eucharist, or for the support of the clergy and the poor.
Oblationer  One who makes an offering as an act worship or reverence.
Oblatrate  To bark or snarl, as a dog.
Oblatration  The act of oblatrating; a barking or snarling.
Oblata  of Oblatum
Oblatum  An oblate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of an ellipse about its minor axis. Cf. Oblongum.
Oblectate  To delight; to please greatly.
Oblectation  The act of pleasing highly; the state of being greatly pleased; delight.
Obligable  Acknowledging, or complying with, obligation; trustworthy.
Obligated  of Obligate
Obligating  of Obligate
Obligate  To bring or place under obligation, moral or legal; to hold by a constraining motive.
Obligate  To bind or firmly hold to an act; to compel; to constrain; to bind to any act of duty or courtesy by a formal pledge.
Obligation  The act of obligating.
Obligation  That which obligates or constrains; the binding power of a promise, contract, oath, or vow, or of law; that which constitutes legal or moral duty.
Obligation  Any act by which a person becomes bound to do something to or for anouther, or to forbear something; external duties imposed by law, promise, or contract, by the relations of society, or by courtesy, kindness, etc.
Obligation  The state of being obligated or bound; the state of being indebted for an act of favor or kindness; as, to place others under obligations to one.
Obligation  A bond with a condition annexed, and a penalty for nonfulfillment. In a larger sense, it is an acknowledgment of a duty to pay a certain sum or do a certain things.
Obligato  See Obbligato.
Obligatorily  In an obligatory manner; by reason of obligation.
Obligatoriness  The quality or state of being obligatory.
Obligatory  Binding in law or conscience; imposing duty or obligation; requiring performance or forbearance of some act; -- often followed by on or upon; as, obedience is obligatory on a soldier.
Obliged  of Oblige
Obliging  of Oblige
Oblige  To attach, as by a bond.
Oblige  To constrain by physical, moral, or legal force; to put under obligation to do or forbear something.
Oblige  To bind by some favor rendered; to place under a debt; hence, to do a favor to; to please; to gratify; to accommodate.
Obligee  The person to whom another is bound, or the person to whom a bond is given.
Obligement  Obligation.
Obliger  One who, or that which, obliges.
Obliging  Putting under obligation; disposed to oblige or do favors; hence, helpful; civil; kind.
Obligor  The person who binds himself, or gives his bond to another.
Obliquation  The act of becoming oblique; a turning to one side; obliquity; as, the obliquation of the eyes.
Obliquation  Deviation from moral rectitude.
Oblique  Not erect or perpendicular; neither parallel to, nor at right angles from, the base; slanting; inclined.
Oblique  Not straightforward; indirect; obscure; hence, disingenuous; underhand; perverse; sinister.
Oblique  Not direct in descent; not following the line of father and son; collateral.
Oblique  An oblique line.
Obliqued  of Oblique
Obliquing  of Oblique
Oblique  To deviate from a perpendicular line; to move in an oblique direction.
Oblique  To march in a direction oblique to the line of the column or platoon; -- formerly accomplished by oblique steps, now by direct steps, the men half-facing either to the right or left.
Oblique-angled  Having oblique angles; as, an oblique-angled triangle.
Obliquely  In an oblique manner; not directly; indirectly.
Obliqueness  Quality or state of being oblique.
Obliquities  of Obliquity
Obliquity  The condition of being oblique; deviation from a right line; deviation from parallelism or perpendicularity; the amount of such deviation; divergence; as, the obliquity of the ecliptic to the equator.
Obliquity  Deviation from ordinary rules; irregularity; deviation from moral rectitude.
Oblite  Indistinct; slurred over.
Obliterated  of Obliterate
Obliterating  of Obliterate
Obliterate  To erase or blot out; to efface; to render undecipherable, as a writing.
Obliterate  To wear out; to remove or destroy utterly by any means; to render imperceptible; as. to obliterate ideas; to obliterate the monuments of antiquity.
Obliterate  Scarcely distinct; -- applied to the markings of insects.
Obliteration  The act of obliterating, or the state of being obliterated; extinction.
Obliterative  Tending or serving to obliterate.
Oblivion  The act of forgetting, or the state of being forgotten; cessation of remembrance; forgetfulness.
Oblivion  Official ignoring of offenses; amnesty, or general pardon; as, an act of oblivion.
Oblivious  Promoting oblivion; causing forgetfulness.
Oblivious  Evincing oblivion; forgetful.
Oblocutor  A disputer; a gainsayer.
Oblong  Having greater length than breadth, esp. when rectangular.
Oblong  A rectangular figure longer than it is broad; hence, any figure longer than it is broad.
Oblongata  The medulla oblongata.
Oblongatal  Of or pertaining to the medulla oblongata; medullar.
Oblongish  Somewhat oblong.
Oblongly  In an oblong form.
Oblongness  State or quality of being oblong.
Oblong-ovate  Between oblong and ovate, but inclined to the latter.
Oblonga  of Oblongum
Oblongum  A prolate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of an ellipse about its greater axis. Cf. Oblatum, and see Ellipsoid of revolution, under Ellipsoid.
Obloquious  Containing obloquy; reproachful
Obloquy  Censorious speech; defamatory language; language that casts contempt on men or their actions; blame; reprehension.
Obloquy  Cause of reproach; disgrace.
Obluctation  A struggle against; resistance; opposition.
Obmutescence  A becoming dumb; loss of speech.
Obmutescence  A keeping silent or mute.
Obnoxious  Subject; liable; exposed; answerable; amenable; -- with to.
Obnoxious  Liable to censure; exposed to punishment; reprehensible; blameworthy.
Obnoxious  Offensive; odious; hateful; as, an obnoxious statesman; a minister obnoxious to the Whigs.
Obnubilate  To cloud; to obscure.
Oboe  One of the higher wind instruments in the modern orchestra, yet of great antiquity, having a penetrating pastoral quality of tone, somewhat like the clarinet in form, but more slender, and sounded by means of a double reed; a hautboy.
Oboist  A performer on the oboe.
Obolary  Possessing only small coins; impoverished.
Obole  A weight of twelve grains; or, according to some, of ten grains, or half a scruple.
Obolize  See Obelize.
Obolo  A copper coin, used in the Ionian Islands, about one cent in value.
Oboli  of Obolus
Obolus  A small silver coin of Athens, the sixth part of a drachma, about three cents in value.
Obolus  An ancient weight, the sixth part of a drachm.
Obomegoid  Obversely omegoid.
Oboval  Obovate.
Obovate  Inversely ovate; ovate with the narrow end downward; as, an obovate leaf.
Obreption  The act of creeping upon with secrecy or by surprise.
Obreption  The obtaining gifts of escheat by fraud or surprise.
Obreptitious  Done or obtained by surprise; with secrecy, or by concealment of the truth.
Obrogate  To annul indirectly by enacting a new and contrary law, instead of by expressly abrogating or repealing the old one.
Obrok  A rent.
Obrok  A poll tax paid by peasants absent from their lord's estate.
Obscene  Offensive to chastity or modesty; expressing of presenting to the mind or view something which delicacy, purity, and decency forbid to be exposed; impure; as, obscene language; obscene pictures.
Obscene  Foul; fifthy; disgusting.
Obscene  Inauspicious; ill-omened.
Obscenities  of Obscenity
Obscenity  That quality in words or things which presents what is offensive to chasity or purity of mind; obscene or impure lanquage or acts; moral impurity; lewdness; obsceneness; as, the obscenity of a speech, or a picture.
Obscurant  One who obscures; one who prevents enlightenment or hinders the progress of knowledge and wisdom.
Obscurantism  The system or the principles of the obscurants.
Obscurantist  Same as Obscurant.
Obscuration  The act or operation of obscuring; the state of being obscured; as, the obscuration of the moon in an eclipse.
Obscure  Covered over, shaded, or darkened; destitute of light; imperfectly illuminated; dusky; dim.
Obscure  Of or pertaining to darkness or night; inconspicuous to the sight; indistinctly seen; hidden; retired; remote from observation; unnoticed.
Obscure  Not noticeable; humble; mean.
Obscure  Not easily understood; not clear or legible; abstruse or blind; as, an obscure passage or inscription.
Obscure  Not clear, full, or distinct; clouded; imperfect; as, an obscure view of remote objects.
Obscured  of Obscure
Obscuring  of Obscure
Obscure  To render obscure; to darken; to make dim; to keep in the dark; to hide; to make less visible, intelligible, legible, glorious, beautiful, or illustrious.
Obscure  To conceal one's self; to hide; to keep dark.
Obscure  Obscurity.
Obscurely  In an obscure manner.
Obscurement  The act of obscuring, or the state of being obscured; obscuration.
Obscureness  Obscurity.
Obscurer  One who, or that which, obscures.
Obscurity  The quality or state of being obscure; darkness; privacy; inconspicuousness; unintelligibleness; uncertainty.
Obsecrated  of Obsecrate
Obsecrating  of Obsecrate
Obsecrate  To beseech; to supplicate; to implore.
Obsecration  The act of obsecrating or imploring; as, the obsecrations of the Litany, being those clauses beginning with "By."
Obsecration  A figure of speech in which the orator implores the assistance of God or man.
Obsecratory  Expressing, or used in, entreaty; supplicatory.
Obsequent  Obedient; submissive; obsequious.
Obsequience  Obsequiousness.
Obsequies  See Obsequy.
Obsequious  Promptly obedient, or submissive, to the will of another; compliant; yielding to the desires of another; devoted.
Obsequious  Servilely or meanly attentive; compliant to excess; cringing; fawning; as, obsequious flatterer, parasite.
Obsequious  Of or pertaining to obsequies; funereal.
Obsequiously  In an obsequious manner; compliantly; fawningly.
Obsequiously  In a manner appropriate to obsequies.
Obsequiousness  The quality or state of being obsequious.
Obsequies  of Obsequy
Obsequy  The last duty or service to a person, rendered after his death; hence, a rite or ceremony pertaining to burial; -- now used only in the plural.
Obsequy  Obsequiousness.
Observable  Worthy or capable of being observed; discernible; noticeable; remarkable.
Observance  The act or practice of observing or noticing with attention; a heeding or keeping with care; performance; -- usually with a sense of strictness and fidelity; as, the observance of the Sabbath is general; the strict observance of duties.
Observance  An act, ceremony, or rite, as of worship or respect; especially, a customary act or service of attention; a form; a practice; a rite; a custom.
Observance  Servile attention; sycophancy.
Observancy  Observance.
Observanda  of Observandum
Observandum  A thing to be observed.
Observant  Taking notice; viewing or noticing attentively; watchful; attentive; as, an observant spectator; observant habits.
Observant  Submissively attentive; obediently watchful; regardful; mindful; obedient (to); -- with of, as, to be observant of rules.
Observant  One who observes forms and rules.
Observant  A sycophantic servant.
Observant  An Observantine.
Observantine  One of a branch of the Order of Franciscans, who profess to adhere more strictly than the Conventuals to the intention of the founder, especially as to poverty; -- called also Observants.
Observantly  In an observant manner.
Observation  The act or the faculty of observing or taking notice; the act of seeing, or of fixing the mind upon, anything.
Observation  The result of an act, or of acts, of observing; view; reflection; conclusion; judgment.
Observation  Hence: An expression of an opinion or judgment upon what one has observed; a remark.
Observation  Performance of what is prescribed; adherence in practice; observance.
Observation  The act of recognizing and noting some fact or occurrence in nature, as an aurora, a corona, or the structure of an animal.
Observation  Specifically, the act of measuring, with suitable instruments, some magnitude, as the time of an occultation, with a clock; the right ascension of a star, with a transit instrument and clock; the sun's altitude, or the distance of the moon from a star, with a sextant; the temperature, with a thermometer, etc.
Observation  The information so acquired.
Observational  Of a pertaining to observation; consisting of, or containing, observations.
Observative  Observing; watchful.
Observator  One who observes or takes notice.
Observator  One who makes a remark.
Observatories  of Observatory
Observatory  A place or building for making observations on the heavenly bodies.
Observatory  A building fitted with instruments for making systematic observations of any particular class or series of natural phenomena.
Observatory  A place, as an elevated chamber, from which a view may be observed or commanded.
Observatory  A lookout on a flank of a battery whence an officer can note the range and effect of the fire.
Observed  of Observe
Observing  of Observe
Observe  To take notice of by appropriate conduct; to conform one's action or practice to; to keep; to heed; to obey; to comply with; as, to observe rules or commands; to observe civility.
Observe  To be on the watch respecting; to pay attention to; to notice with care; to see; to perceive; to discover; as, to observe an eclipse; to observe the color or fashion of a dress; to observe the movements of an army.
Observe  To express as what has been noticed; to utter as a remark; to say in a casual or incidental way; to remark.
Observe  To take notice; to give attention to what one sees or hears; to attend.
Observe  To make a remark; to comment; -- generally with on or upon.
Observer  One who observes, or pays attention to, anything; especially, one engaged in, or trained to habits of, close and exact observation; as, an astronomical observer.
Observer  One who keeps any law, custom, regulation, rite, etc.; one who conforms to anything in practice.
Observer  One who fulfills or performs; as, an observer of his promises.
Observer  A sycophantic follower.
Observership  The office or work of an observer.
Observing  Giving particular attention; habitually attentive to what passes; as, an observing person; an observing mind.
Obsess  To besiege; to beset.
Obsession  The act of besieging.
Obsession  The state of being besieged; -- used specifically of a person beset by a spirit from without.
Obsidian  A kind of glass produced by volcanoes. It is usually of a black color, and opaque, except in thin splinters.
Obsidional  Of or pertaining to a siege.
Obsigillation  A sealing up.
Obsign  To seal; to confirm, as by a seal or stamp.
Obsignate  To seal; to ratify.
Obsignation  The act of sealing or ratifying; the state of being sealed or confirmed; confirmation, as by the Holy Spirit.
Obsignatory  Ratifying; confirming by sealing.
Obsolesce  To become obsolescent.
Obsolescence  The state of becoming obsolete.
Obsolescent  Going out of use; becoming obsolete; passing into desuetude.
Obsolete  No longer in use; gone into disuse; disused; neglected; as, an obsolete word; an obsolete statute; -- applied chiefly to words, writings, or observances.
Obsolete  Not very distinct; obscure; rudimental; imperfectly developed; abortive.
Obsolete  To become obsolete; to go out of use.
Obsoletely  In an obsolete manner.
Obsoleteness  The state of being obsolete, or no longer used; a state of desuetude.
Obsoleteness  Indistinctness; want of development.
Obsoletism  A disused word or phrase; an archaism.
Obstacle  That which stands in the way, or opposes; anything that hinders progress; a hindrance; an obstruction, physical or moral.
Obstancy  Opposition; impediment; obstruction.
Obstetric  Alt. of Obstetrical
Obstetrical  Of or pertaining to midwifery, or the delivery of women in childbed; as, the obstetric art.
Obstetricate  To perform the office of midwife.
Obstetricate  To assist as a midwife.
Obstetrication  The act of assisting as a midwife; delivery.
Obstetrician  One skilled in obstetrics; an accoucheur.
Obstetricious  Serving to assist childbirth; obstetric; hence, facilitating any bringing forth or deliverance.
Obstetrics  The science of midwifery; the art of assisting women in parturition, or in the trouble incident to childbirth.
Obstetricy  Obstetrics.
Obstinacy  A fixedness in will, opinion, or resolution that can not be shaken at all, or only with great difficulty; firm and usually unreasonable adherence to an opinion, purpose, or system; unyielding disposition; stubborness; pertinacity; persistency; contumacy.
Obstinacy  The quality or state of being difficult to remedy, relieve, or subdue; as, the obstinacy of a disease or evil.
Obstinate  Pertinaciously adhering to an opinion, purpose, or course; persistent; not yielding to reason, arguments, or other means; stubborn; pertinacious; -- usually implying unreasonableness.
Obstinate  Not yielding; not easily subdued or removed; as, obstinate fever; obstinate obstructions.
Obstination  Obstinacy; stubbornness.
Obstipation  The act of stopping up, as a passage.
Obstipation  Extreme constipation.
Obstreperous  Attended by, or making, a loud and tumultuous noise; clamorous; noisy; vociferous.
Obstriction  The state of being constrained, bound, or obliged; that which constrains or obliges; obligation; bond.
Obstringe  To constrain; to put under obligation.
Obstructed  of Obstruct
Obstructing  of Obstruct
Obstruct  To block up; to stop up or close, as a way or passage; to place an obstacle in, or fill with obstacles or impediments that prevent or hinder passing; as, to obstruct a street; to obstruct the channels of the body.
Obstruct  To be, or come, in the way of; to hinder from passing; to stop; to impede; to retard; as, the bar in the harbor obstructs the passage of ships; clouds obstruct the light of the sun; unwise rules obstruct legislation.
Obstructer  One who obstructs or hinders.
Obstruction  The act of obstructing, or state of being obstructed.
Obstruction  That which obstructs or impedes; an obstacle; an impediment; a hindrance.
Obstruction  The condition of having the natural powers obstructed in their usual course; the arrest of the vital functions; death.
Obstructionism  The act or the policy of obstructing progress.
Obstructionist  One who hinders progress; one who obstructs business, as in a legislative body.
Obstructionist  Of or pertaining to obstructionists.
Obstructive  Tending to obstruct; presenting obstacles; hindering; causing impediment.
Obstructive  An obstructive person or thing.
Obstruent  Causing obstruction; blocking up; hindering; as, an obstruent medicine.
Obstruent  Anything that obstructs or closes a passage; esp., that which obstructs natural passages in the body; as, a medicine which acts as an obstruent.
Obstupefaction  See Stupefaction.
Obstupefactive  Stupefactive.
Obstupefy  See Stupefy.
Obtained  of Obtain
Obtaining  of Obtain
Obtain  To hold; to keep; to possess.
Obtain  To get hold of by effort; to gain possession of; to procure; to acquire, in any way.
Obtain  To become held; to gain or have a firm footing; to be recognized or established; to subsist; to become prevalent or general; to prevail; as, the custom obtains of going to the seashore in summer.
Obtain  To prevail; to succeed.
Obtainable  Capable of being obtained.
Obtainer  One who obtains.
Obtainment  The act or process of obtaining; attainment.
Obtected  Covered; protected.
Obtected  Covered with a hard chitinous case, as the pupa of certain files.
Obtemper  To obey (a judgment or decree).
Obtemperate  To obey.
Obtended  of Obtend
Obtending  of Obtend
Obtend  To oppose; to hold out in opposition.
Obtend  To offer as the reason of anything; to pretend.
Obtenebration  The act of darkening; the state of being darkened; darkness.
Obtension  The act of obtending.
Obtested  of Obtest
Obtesting  of Obtest
Obtest  To call to witness; to invoke as a witness.
Obtest  To beseech; to supplicate; to beg for.
Obtest  To protest.
Obtestation  The act of obtesting; supplication; protestation.
Obtrectation  Slander; detraction; calumny.
Obtruded  of Obtrude
Obtruding  of Obtrude
Obtrude  To thrust impertinently; to present without warrant or solicitation; as, to obtrude one's self upon a company.
Obtrude  To offer with unreasonable importunity; to urge unduly or against the will.
Obtrude  To thrust one's self upon a company or upon attention; to intrude.
Obtruder  One who obtrudes.
Obtruncate  To deprive of a limb; to lop.
Obtruncation  The act of lopping or cutting off.
Obtrusion  The act of obtruding; a thrusting upon others by force or unsolicited; as, the obtrusion of crude opinions on the world.
Obtrusion  That which is obtruded.
Obtrusionist  One who practices or excuses obtrusion.
Obtrusive  Disposed to obtrude; inclined to intrude or thrust one's self or one's opinions upon others, or to enter uninvited; forward; pushing; intrusive.
Obtunded  of Obtund
Obtunding  of Obtund
Obtund  To reduce the edge, pungency, or violent action of; to dull; to blunt; to deaden; to quell; as, to obtund the acrimony of the gall.
Obtundent  A substance which sheathes a part, or blunts irritation, usually some bland, oily, or mucilaginous matter; -- nearly the same as demulcent.
Obtunder  That which obtunds or blunts; especially, that which blunts sensibility.
Obturation  The act of stopping up, or closing, an opening.
Obturator  That which closes or stops an opening.
Obturator  An apparatus designed to close an unnatural opening, as a fissure of the palate.
Obturator  Serving as an obturator; closing an opening; pertaining to, or in the region of, the obturator foramen; as, the obturator nerve.
Obtusangular  See Obstuseangular.
Obtuse  Not pointed or acute; blunt; -- applied esp. to angles greater than a right angle, or containing more than ninety degrees.
Obtuse  Not having acute sensibility or perceptions; dull; stupid; as, obtuse senses.
Obtuse  Dull; deadened; as, obtuse sound.
Obtuse-angled  Alt. of obtuse-angular
obtuse-angular  Having an obtuse angle; as, an obtuse-angled triangle.
Obtusely  In an obtuse manner.
Obtuseness  State or quality of being obtuse.
Obtusion  The act or process of making obtuse or blunt.
Obtusion  The state of being dulled or blunted; as, the obtusion of the senses.
Obtusity  Obtuseness.
Obumbrant  Overhanging; as, obumbrant feathers.
Obumbrate  To shade; to darken; to cloud.
Obumbration  Act of darkening or obscuring.
Obuncous  Hooked or crooked in an extreme degree.
Obvention  The act of happening incidentally; that which happens casually; an incidental advantage; an occasional offering.
Obversant  Conversant; familiar.
Obverse  Having the base, or end next the attachment, narrower than the top, as a leaf.
Obverse  The face of a coin which has the principal image or inscription upon it; -- the other side being the reverse.
Obverse  Anything necessarily involved in, or answering to, another; the more apparent or conspicuous of two possible sides, or of two corresponding things.
Obversely  In an obverse manner.
Obversion  The act of turning toward or downward.
Obversion  The act of immediate inference, by which we deny the opposite of anything which has been affirmed; as, all men are mortal; then, by obversion, no men are immortal. This is also described as "immediate inference by privative conception."
Obverted  of Obvert
Obverting  of Obvert
Obvert  To turn toward.
Obviated  of Obviate
Obviating  of Obviate
Obviate  To meet in the way.
Obviate  To anticipate; to prevent by interception; to remove from the way or path; to make unnecessary; as, to obviate the necessity of going.
Obviation  The act of obviating, or the state of being obviated.
Obvious  Opposing; fronting.
Obvious  Exposed; subject; open; liable.
Obvious  Easily discovered, seen, or understood; readily perceived by the eye or the intellect; plain; evident; apparent; as, an obvious meaning; an obvious remark.
Obvolute  Alt. of Obvoluted
Obvoluted  Overlapping; contorted; convolute; -- applied primarily, in botany, to two opposite leaves, each of which has one edge overlapping the nearest edge of the other, and secondarily to a circle of several leaves or petals which thus overlap.
Oby  See Obi.
Oca  A Peruvian name for certain species of Oxalis (O. crenata, and O. tuberosa) which bear edible tubers.
Occamy  An alloy imitating gold or silver.
Occasion  A falling out, happening, or coming to pass; hence, that which falls out or happens; occurrence; incident.
Occasion  A favorable opportunity; a convenient or timely chance; convenience.
Occasion  An occurrence or condition of affairs which brings with it some unlooked-for event; that which incidentally brings to pass an event, without being its efficient cause or sufficient reason; accidental or incidental cause.
Occasion  Need; exigency; requirement; necessity; as, I have no occasion for firearms.
Occasion  A reason or excuse; a motive; a persuasion.
Occasioned  of Occasion
Occasioning  of Occasion
Occasion  To give occasion to; to cause; to produce; to induce; as, to occasion anxiety.
Occasionable  Capable of being occasioned or caused.
Occasional  Of or pertaining to an occasion or to occasions; occuring at times, but not constant, regular, or systematic; made or happening as opportunity requires or admits; casual; incidental; as, occasional remarks, or efforts.
Occasional  Produced by accident; as, the occasional origin of a thing.
Occasionalism  The system of occasional causes; -- a name given to certain theories of the Cartesian school of philosophers, as to the intervention of the First Cause, by which they account for the apparent reciprocal action of the soul and the body.
Occasionality  Quality or state of being occasional; occasional occurrence.
Occasionally  In an occasional manner; on occasion; at times, as convenience requires or opportunity offers; not regularly.
Occasionate  To occasion.
Occasioner  One who, or that which, occasions, causes, or produces.
Occasive  Of or pertaining to the setting sun; falling; descending; western.
Occecation  The act of making blind, or the state of being blind.
Occident  The part of the horizon where the sun last appears in the evening; that part of the earth towards the sunset; the west; -- opposed to orient. Specifically, in former times, Europe as opposed to Asia; now, also, the Western hemisphere.
Occidental  Of, pertaining to, or situated in, the occident, or west; western; -- opposed to oriental; as, occidental climates, or customs; an occidental planet.
Occidental  Possessing inferior hardness, brilliancy, or beauty; -- used of inferior precious stones and gems, because those found in the Orient are generally superior.
Occidentals  Western Christians of the Latin rite. See Orientals.
Occiduous  Western; occidental.
Occipital  Of or pertaining to the occiput, or back part of the head, or to the occipital bone.
Occipital  The occipital bone.
Occipito-  A combining form denoting relation to, or situation near, the occiput; as, occipito-axial; occipito-mastoid.
Occipitoaxial  Of or pertaining to the occipital bone and second vertebra, or axis.
Occipita  of Occiput
Occiputs  of Occiput
Occiput  The back, or posterior, part of the head or skull; the region of the occipital bone.
Occiput  A plate which forms the back part of the head of insects.
Occision  A killing; the act of killing.
Occlude  To shut up; to close.
Occlude  To take in and retain; to absorb; -- said especially with respect to gases; as iron, platinum, and palladium occlude large volumes of hydrogen.
Occludent  Serving to close; shutting up.
Occludent  That which closes or shuts up.
Occluse  Shut; closed.
Occlusion  The act of occluding, or the state of being occluded.
Occlusion  The transient approximation of the edges of a natural opening; imperforation.
Occrustate  To incrust; to harden.
Occult  Hidden from the eye or the understanding; inviable; secret; concealed; unknown.
Occult  To eclipse; to hide from sight.
Occultation  The hiding of a heavenly body from sight by the intervention of some other of the heavenly bodies; -- applied especially to eclipses of stars and planets by the moon, and to the eclipses of satellites of planets by their primaries.
Occultation  Fig.: The state of being occult.
Occulted  Hidden; secret.
Occulted  Concealed by the intervention of some other heavenly body, as a star by the moon.
Occulting  Same as Occultation.
Occultism  A certain Oriental system of theosophy.
Occultist  An adherent of occultism.
Occultly  In an occult manner.
Occultness  State or quality of being occult.
Occupancy  The act of taking or holding possession; possession; occupation.
Occupant  One who occupies, or takes possession; one who has the actual use or possession, or is in possession, of a thing.
Occupant  A prostitute.
Occupate  To occupy.
Occupation  The act or process of occupying or taking possession; actual possession and control; the state of being occupied; a holding or keeping; tenure; use; as, the occupation of lands by a tenant.
Occupation  That which occupies or engages the time and attention; the principal business of one's life; vocation; employment; calling; trade.
Occupier  One who occupies, or has possession.
Occupier  One who follows an employment; hence, a tradesman.
Occupied  of Occupy
Occupying  of Occupy
Occupy  To take or hold possession of; to hold or keep for use; to possess.
Occupy  To hold, or fill, the dimensions of; to take up the room or space of; to cover or fill; as, the camp occupies five acres of ground.
Occupy  To possess or use the time or capacity of; to engage the service of; to employ; to busy.
Occupy  To do business in; to busy one's self with.
Occupy  To use; to expend; to make use of.
Occupy  To have sexual intercourse with.
Occupy  To hold possession; to be an occupant.
Occupy  To follow business; to traffic.
Occurred  of Occur
Occurring  of Occur
Occur  To meet; to clash.
Occur  To go in order to meet; to make reply.
Occur  To meet one's eye; to be found or met with; to present itself; to offer; to appear; to happen; to take place; as, I will write if opportunity occurs.
Occur  To meet or come to the mind; to suggest itself; to be presented to the imagination or memory.
Occurrence  A coming or happening; as, the occurence of a railway collision.
Occurrence  Any incident or event; esp., one which happens without being designed or expected; as, an unusual occurrence, or the ordinary occurrences of life.
Occurrent  Occurring or happening; hence, incidental; accidental.
Occurrent  One who meets; hence, an adversary.
Occurrent  Anything that happens; an occurrence.
Occurse  Same as Occursion.
Occursion  A meeting; a clash; a collision.
Ocean  The whole body of salt water which covers more than three fifths of the surface of the globe; -- called also the sea, or great sea.
Ocean  One of the large bodies of water into which the great ocean is regarded as divided, as the Atlantic, Pacific, Indian, Arctic and Antarctic oceans.
Ocean  An immense expanse; any vast space or quantity without apparent limits; as, the boundless ocean of eternity; an ocean of affairs.
Ocean  Of or pertaining to the main or great sea; as, the ocean waves; an ocean stream.
Oceanic  Of or pertaining to the ocean; found or formed in or about, or produced by, the ocean; frequenting the ocean, especially mid-ocean.
Oceanic  Of or pertaining to Oceania or its inhabitants.
Oceanography  A description of the ocean.
Oceanology  That branch of science which relates to the ocean.
Oceanus  The god of the great outer sea, or the river which was believed to flow around the whole earth.
Ocellary  Of or pertaining to ocelli.
Ocellate  Same as Ocellated.
Ocellated  Resembling an eye.
Ocellated  Marked with eyelike spots of color; as, the ocellated blenny.
Ocelli  of Ocellus
Ocellus  A little eye; a minute simple eye found in many invertebrates.
Ocellus  An eyelike spot of color, as those on the tail of the peacock.
Oceloid  Resembling the ocelot.
Ocelot  An American feline carnivore (Felis pardalis). It ranges from the Southwestern United States to Patagonia. It is covered with blackish ocellated spots and blotches, which are variously arranged. The ground color varies from reddish gray to tawny yellow.
Ocher  Alt. of Ochre
Ochre  A impure earthy ore of iron or a ferruginous clay, usually red (hematite) or yellow (limonite), -- used as a pigment in making paints, etc. The name is also applied to clays of other colors.
Ochre  A metallic oxide occurring in earthy form; as, tungstic ocher or tungstite.
Ocherous  Alt. of Ochreous
Ochreous  Of or pertaining to ocher; containing or resembling ocher; as, ocherous matter; ocherous soil.
Ochery  Ocherous.
Ochimy  See Occamy.
Ochlesis  A general morbid condition induced by the crowding together of many persons, esp. sick persons, under one roof.
Ochlocracy  A form of government by the multitude; a mobocracy.
Ochlocratic  Alt. of Ochlocratical
Ochlocratical  Of or pertaining to ochlocracy; having the form or character of an ochlocracy; mobocratic.
Ochraceous  Ocherous.
Ochre  See Ocher.
Ochreaee  of Ochrea
Ochrea  A greave or legging.
Ochrea  A kind of sheath formed by two stipules united round a stem.
Ochreate  Alt. of Ochreated
Ochreated  Wearing or furnished with an ochrea or legging; wearing boots; booted.
Ochreated  Provided with ochrea, or sheathformed stipules, as the rhubarb, yellow dock, and knotgrass.
Ochreous  See Ocherous.
Ochrey  See Ochery.
Ochroleucous  Yellowish white; having a faint tint of dingy yellow.
Ochry  See Ochery.
Ochymy  See Occamy.
Ocra  See Okra.
Ocrea  See Ochrea.
Ocreate  Alt. of Ocreated
Ocreated  Same as Ochreate, Ochreated.
Octa-  A prefix meaning eight. See Octo-.
Octachord  An instrument of eight strings; a system of eight tones.
Octad  An atom or radical which has a valence of eight, or is octavalent.
Octaedral  See Octahedral.
Octaemeron  A fast of eight days before a great festival.
Octagon  A plane figure of eight sides and eight angles.
Octagon  Any structure (as a fortification) or place with eight sides or angles.
Octagonal  Having eight sides and eight angles.
Octagynous  Having eight pistils or styles; octogynous.
Octahedral  Having eight faces or sides; of, pertaining to, or formed in, octahedrons; as, octahedral cleavage.
Octahedrite  Titanium dioxide occurring in acute octahedral crystals.
Octahedron  A solid bounded by eight faces. The regular octahedron is contained by eight equal equilateral triangles.
Octamerous  Having the parts in eights; as, an octamerous flower; octamerous mesenteries in polyps.
Octameter  A verse containing eight feet; as, --//Deep# in|to# the | dark#ness | peer#ing, | long# I | stood# there | wond'#ring, | fear#ing.
Octander  One of the Octandria.
Octandria  A Linnaean class of plants, in which the flowers have eight stamens not united to one another or to the pistil.
Octandrian  Alt. of Octandrous
Octandrous  Of or pertaining to the Octandria; having eight distinct stamens.
Octane  Any one of a group of metametric hydrocarcons (C8H18) of the methane series. The most important is a colorless, volatile, inflammable liquid, found in petroleum, and a constituent of benzene or ligroin.
Octangular  Having eight angles; eight-angled.
Octant  The eighth part of a circle; an arc of 45 degrees.
Octant  The position or aspect of a heavenly body, as the moon or a planet, when half way between conjunction, or opposition, and quadrature, or distant from another body 45 degrees.
Octant  An instrument for measuring angles (generally called a quadrant), having an arc which measures up to 9O, but being itself the eighth part of a circle. Cf. Sextant.
Octant  One of the eight parts into which a space is divided by three coordinate planes.
Octapla  A portion of the Old Testament prepared by Origen in the 3d century, containing the Hebrew text and seven Greek versions of it, arranged in eight parallel columns.
Octaroon  See Octoroon.
Octastyle  See Octostyle.
Octateuch  A collection of eight books; especially, the first eight books of the Old Testament.
Octavalent  Having a valence of eight; capable of being combined with, exchanged for, or compared with, eight atoms of hydrogen; -- said of certain atoms or radicals.
Octave  The eighth day after a church festival, the festival day being included; also, the week following a church festival.
Octave  The eighth tone in the scale; the interval between one and eight of the scale, or any interval of equal length; an interval of five tones and two semitones.
Octave  The whole diatonic scale itself.
Octave  The first two stanzas of a sonnet, consisting of four verses each; a stanza of eight lines.
Octave  A small cask of wine, the eighth part of a pipe.
Octave  Consisting of eight; eight.
Octavos  of Octavo
Octavo  A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eight leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book so made; -- usually written 8vo or 8.
Octavo  Having eight leaves to a sheet; as, an octavo form, book, leaf, size, etc.
Octene  Same as Octylene.
Octennial  Happening every eighth year; also, lasting a period of eight years.
Octet  A composition for eight parts, usually for eight solo instruments or voices.
Octic  Of the eighth degree or order.
Octic  A quantic of the eighth degree.
Octile  Same as Octant, 2.
Octillion  According to the French method of numeration (which method is followed also in the United States) the number expressed by a unit with twenty-seven ciphers annexed. According to the English method, the number expressed by a unit with forty-eight ciphers annexed. See Numeration.
Octo-  Alt. of Octa-
Octa-  A combining form meaning eight; as in octodecimal, octodecimal, octolocular.
Octoate  A salt of an octoic acid; a caprylate.
October  The tenth month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
October  Ale or cider made in that month.
Octocera  Octocerata.
Octocerata  A suborder of Cephalopoda including Octopus, Argonauta, and allied genera, having eight arms around the head; -- called also Octopoda.
Octochord  See Octachord.
Octodecimo  Having eighteen leaves to a sheet; as, an octodecimo form, book, leaf, size, etc.
Octodecimos  of Octodecimo
Octodecimo  A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eighteen leaves; hence; indicating more or less definitely a size of book, whose sheets are so folded; -- usually written 18mo or 18, and called eighteenmo.
Octodentate  Having eight teeth.
Octodont  Of or pertaining to the Octodontidae, a family of rodents which includes the coypu, and many other South American species.
Octoedrical  See Octahedral.
Octofid  Cleft or separated into eight segments, as a calyx.
Octogamy  A marrying eight times.
Octogenarian  A person eighty years, or more, of age.
Octogenary  Of eighty years of age.
Octogild  A pecuniary compensation for an injury, of eight times the value of the thing.
Octogonal  See Octagonal.
Octogynia  A Linnaean order of plants having eight pistils.
Octogynian  Alt. of Octogynous
Octogynous  Having eight pistils; octagynous.
Octoic  Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, octane; -- used specifically, to designate any one of a group of acids, the most important of which is called caprylic acid.
Octolocular  Having eight cells for seeds.
Octonaphthene  A colorless liquid hydrocarbon of the octylene series, occurring in Caucasian petroleum.
Octonary  Of or pertaining to the number eight.
Octonocular  Having eight eyes.
Octopede  An animal having eight feet, as a spider.
Octopetalous  Having eight petals or flower leaves.
Octopod  One of the Octocerata.
Octopoda  Same as Octocerata.
Octopoda  Same as Arachnida.
Octopodia  Same as Octocerata.
Octopus  A genus of eight-armed cephalopods, including numerous species, some of them of large size. See Devilfish,
Octoradiated  Having eight rays.
Octoroon  The offspring of a quadroon and a white person; a mestee.
Octospermous  Containing eight seeds.
Octostichous  In eight vertical ranks, as leaves on a stem.
Octostyle  Having eight columns in the front; -- said of a temple or portico. The Parthenon is octostyle, but most large Greek temples are hexastele. See Hexastyle.
Octostyle  An octostyle portico or temple.
Octosyllabic  Alt. of Octosyllabical
Octosyllabical  Consisting of or containing eight syllables.
Octosyllable  Octosyllabic.
Octosyllable  A word of eight syllables.
Octoyl  A hypothetical radical (C8H15O), regarded as the essential residue of octoic acid.
Octroi  A privilege granted by the sovereign authority, as the exclusive right of trade granted to a guild or society; a concession.
Octroi  A tax levied in money or kind at the gate of a French city on articles brought within the walls.
Octuor  See Octet.
Octuple  Eightfold.
Octyl  A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essential residue of octane, and as entering into its derivatives; as, octyl alcohol.
Octylene  Any one of a series of metameric hydrocarbons (C8H16) of the ethylene series. In general they are combustible, colorless liquids.
Octylic  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, octyl; as, octylic ether.
Ocular  Depending on, or perceived by, the eye; received by actual sight; personally seeing or having seen; as, ocular proof.
Ocular  Of or pertaining to the eye; optic.
Ocular  The eyepiece of an optical instrument, as of a telescope or microscope.
Ocularly  By the eye, or by actual sight.
Oculary  Of or pertaining to the eye; ocular; optic; as, oculary medicines.
Oculate  Alt. of Oculated
Oculated  Furnished with eyes.
Oculated  Having spots or holes resembling eyes; ocellated.
Oculiform  In the form of an eye; resembling an eye; as, an oculiform pebble.
Oculina  A genus of tropical corals, usually branched, and having a very volid texture.
Oculinacea  A suborder of corals including many reef-building species, having round, starlike calicles.
Oculist  One skilled in treating diseases of the eye.
Oculo-  A combining form from L. oculus the eye.
Oculomotor  Of or pertaining to the movement of the eye; -- applied especially to the common motor nerves (or third pair of cranial nerves) which supply many of the muscles of the orbit.
Oculomotor  The oculomotor nerve.
Oculonasal  Of or pertaining to the region of the eye and the nose; as, the oculonasal, or nasal, nerve, one of the branches of the ophthalmic.
Oculi  of Oculus
Oculus  An eye; (Bot.) a leaf bud.
Oculus  A round window, usually a small one.
Ocypodian  One of a tribe of crabs which live in holes in the sand along the seashore, and run very rapidly, -- whence the name.
Odalisque  A female slave or concubine in the harem of the Turkish sultan.
Odd  Not paired with another, or remaining over after a pairing; without a mate; unmatched; single; as, an odd shoe; an odd glove.
Odd  Not divisible by 2 without a remainder; not capable of being evenly paired, one unit with another; as, 1, 3, 7, 9, 11, etc., are odd numbers.
Odd  Left over after a definite round number has been taken or mentioned; indefinitely, but not greatly, exceeding a specified number; extra.
Odd  Remaining over; unconnected; detached; fragmentary; hence, occasional; inconsiderable; as, odd jobs; odd minutes; odd trifles.
Odd  Different from what is usual or common; unusual; singular; peculiar; unique; strange.
Odd  A member of a secret order, or fraternity, styled the Independent Order of Odd Fellows, established for mutual aid and social enjoyment.
Oddities  of Oddity
Oddity  The quality or state of being odd; singularity; queerness; peculiarity; as, oddity of dress, manners, and the like.
Oddity  That which is odd; as, a collection of oddities.
Oddly  In an odd manner; unevently.
Oddly  In a peculiar manner; strangely; queerly; curiously.
Oddly  In a manner measured by an odd number.
Oddness  The state of being odd, or not even.
Oddness  Singularity; strangeness; eccentricity; irregularity; uncouthness; as, the oddness of dress or shape; the oddness of an event.
Odds  Difference in favor of one and against another; excess of one of two things or numbers over the other; inequality; advantage; superiority; hence, excess of chances; probability.
Odds  Quarrel; dispute; debate; strife; -- chiefly in the phrase at odds.
Ode  A short poetical composition proper to be set to music or sung; a lyric poem; esp., now, a poem characterized by sustained noble sentiment and appropriate dignity of style.
Odelet  A little or short ode.
Odeon  A kind of theater in ancient Greece, smaller than the dramatic theater and roofed over, in which poets and musicians submitted their works to the approval of the public, and contended for prizes; -- hence, in modern usage, the name of a hall for musical or dramatic performances.
Odeum  See Odeon.
Odible  Fitted to excite hatred; hateful.
Odic  Of or pertaining to od. See Od.
Odin  The supreme deity of the Scandinavians; -- the same as Woden, of the German tribes.
Odinic  Of or pertaining to Odin.
Odious  Hateful; deserving or receiving hatred; as, an odious name, system, vice.
Odious  Causing or provoking hatred, repugnance, or disgust; offensive; disagreeable; repulsive; as, an odious sight; an odious smell.
Odist  A writer of an ode or odes.
Odium  Hatred; dislike; as, his conduct brought him into odium, or, brought odium upon him.
Odium  The quality that provokes hatred; offensiveness.
Odized  of Odize
Odizing  of Odize
Odize  To charge with od. See Od.
Odmyl  A volatile liquid obtained by boiling sulphur with linseed oil. It has an unpleasant garlic odor.
Odometer  An instrument attached to the wheel of a vehicle, to measure the distance traversed; also, a wheel used by surveyors, which registers the miles and rods traversed.
Odometrical  Of or pertaining to the odometer, or to measurements made with it.
Odometrous  Serving to measure distance on a road.
Odometry  Measurement of distances by the odometer.
Odonata  The division of insects that includes the dragon flies.
Odontalgia  Toothache.
Odontalgic  Of or pertaining to odontalgia.
Odontalgic  A remedy for the toothache.
Odontalgy  Same as Odontalgia.
Odontiasis  Cutting of the teeth; dentition.
Odonto-  A combining form from Gr. 'odoy`s, 'odo`ntos, a tooth.
Odontoblast  One of the more or less columnar cells on the outer surface of the pulp of a tooth; an odontoplast. They are supposed to be connected with the formation of dentine.
Odontoblast  One of the cells which secrete the chitinous teeth of Mollusca.
Odontocete  A subdivision of Cetacea, including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc.; the toothed whales.
Odontogeny  Generetion, or mode of development, of the teeth.
Odontograph  An instrument for marking or laying off the outlines of teeth of gear wheels.
Odontographic  Of or pertaining to odontography.
Odontography  A description of the teeth.
Odontoid  Having the form of a tooth; toothlike.
Odontoid  Of or pertaining to the odontoid bone or to the odontoid process.
Odontolcae  An extinct order of ostrichlike aquatic birds having teeth, which are set in a groove in the jaw. It includes Hesperornis, and allied genera. See Hesperornis.
Odontolite  A fossil tooth colored a bright blue by phosphate of iron. It is used as an imitation of turquoise, and hence called bone turquoise.
Odontology  The science which treats of the teeth, their structure and development.
Odontophora  Same as Cephalophora.
Odontophore  A special structure found in the mouth of most mollusks, except bivalves. It consists of several muscles and a cartilage which supports a chitinous radula, or lingual ribbon, armed with teeth. Also applied to the radula alone. See Radula.
Odontophorous  Having an odontophore.
Odontoplast  An odontoblast.
Odontopteryx  An extinct Eocene bird having the jaws strongly serrated, or dentated, but destitute of true teeth. It was found near London.
Odontornithes  A group of Mesozoic birds having the jaws armed with teeth, as in most other vertebrates. They have been divided into three orders: Odontolcae, Odontotormae, and Saururae.
Odontostomatous  Having toothlike mandibles; -- applied to certain insects.
Odontotormae  An order of extinct toothed birds having the teeth in sockets, as in the genus Ichthyornis. See Ichthyornis.
Odor  Any smell, whether fragrant or offensive; scent; perfume.
Odorament  A perfume; a strong scent.
Odorant  Yielding odors; fragrant.
Odorate  Odorous.
Odorating  Diffusing odor or scent; fragrant.
Odoriferous  Bearing or yielding an odor; perfumed; usually, sweet of scent; fragrant; as, odoriferous spices, particles, fumes, breezes.
Odorline  A pungent oily substance obtained by redistilling bone oil.
Odorless  Free from odor.
Odorous  Having or emitting an odor or scent, esp. a sweet odor; fragrant; sweet-smelling.
Ods  A corruption of God's; -- formerly used in oaths and ejaculatory phrases.
Odyl  Alt. of Odyle
Odyle  See Od. [Archaic].
Odylic  Of or pertaining to odyle; odic; as, odylic force.
Odyssey  An epic poem attributed to Homer, which describes the return of Ulysses to Ithaca after the siege of Troy.
Oecoid  The colorless porous framework, or stroma, of red blood corpuscles from which the zooid, or hemoglobin and other substances of the corpuscles, may be dissolved out.
Oecology  The various relations of animals and plants to one another and to the outer world.
Oeconomical  See Economical.
Oeconomics  See Economics.
Oeconomy  See Economy.
Oecumenical  See Ecumenical.
Oedema  A swelling from effusion of watery fluid in the cellular tissue beneath the skin or mucous membrance; dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue.
Oedematous  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, edema; affected with edema.
Oeiliad  Alt. of Oeillade
Oeillade  A glance of the eye; an amorous look.
Oelet  An eye, bud, or shoot, as of a plant; an oilet.
Oenanthate  A salt of the supposed /nanthic acid.
Oenanthic  Having, or imparting, the odor characteristic of the bouquet of wine; specifically used, formerly, to designate an acid whose ethereal salts were supposed to occasion the peculiar bouquet, or aroma, of old wine. Cf. Oenanthylic.
Oenanthol  An oily substance obtained by the distillation of castor oil, recognized as the aldehyde of oenanthylic acid, and hence called also oenanthaldehyde.
Oenanthone  The ketone of oenanthic acid.
Oenanthyl  A hydrocarbon radical formerly supposed to exist in oenanthic acid, now known to be identical with heptyl.
Oenanthylate  A salt of /nanthylic acid; as, potassium oenanthylate.
Oenanthylic  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, oenanthyl; specifically, designating an acid formerly supposed to be identical with the acid in oenanthic ether, but now known to be identical with heptoic acid.
Oenanthylidene  A colorless liquid hydrocarbon, having a garlic odor; heptine.
Oenanthylous  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid formerly supposed to be the acid of oenanthylic ether, but now known to be a mixture of higher acids, especially capric acid.
Oenocyan  The coloring matter of red wines.
Oenology  Knowledge of wine, scientific or practical.
Oenomania  Delirium tremens.
Oenomania  Dipsomania.
Oenomel  Wine mixed with honey; mead,
Oenometer  See Alcoholometer.
Oenophilist  A lover of wine.
Oenothionic  Pertaining to an acid now called sulphovinic, / ethyl sulphuric, acid.
O'er  A contr. of Over.
Oesophagus  Alt. of Oesophageal
Oesophageal  Same as Esophagus, Esophageal, etc.
Oestrian  Of or pertaining to the gadflies.
Oestrian  A gadfly.
Oestrual  Of or pertaining to sexual desire; -- mostly applied to brute animals; as, the oestrual period; oestrual influence.
Oestruation  The state of being under oestrual influence, or of having sexual desire.
Oestrus  A genus of gadflies. The species which deposits its larvae in the nasal cavities of sheep is oestrus ovis.
Oestrus  A vehement desire; esp. (Physiol.), the periodical sexual impulse of animals; heat; rut.
Off  In a general sense, denoting from or away from; as:
Off  Denoting distance or separation; as, the house is a mile off.
Off  Denoting the action of removing or separating; separation; as, to take off the hat or cloak; to cut off, to pare off, to clip off, to peel off, to tear off, to march off, to fly off, and the like.
Off  Denoting a leaving, abandonment, departure, abatement, interruption, or remission; as, the fever goes off; the pain goes off; the game is off; all bets are off.
Off  Denoting a different direction; not on or towards: away; as, to look off.
Off  Denoting opposition or negation.
Off  Away; begone; -- a command to depart.
Off  Not on; away from; as, to be off one's legs or off the bed; two miles off the shore.
Off  On the farther side; most distant; on the side of an animal or a team farthest from the driver when he is on foot; in the United States, the right side; as, the off horse or ox in a team, in distinction from the nigh or near horse or ox; the off leg.
Off  Designating a time when one is not strictly attentive to business or affairs, or is absent from his post, and, hence, a time when affairs are not urgent; as, he took an off day for fishing: an off year in politics.
Off  The side of the field that is on the right of the wicket keeper.
Offal  The rejected or waste parts of a butchered animal.
Offal  A dead body; carrion.
Offal  That which is thrown away as worthless or unfit for use; refuse; rubbish.
Offcut  That which is cut off.
Offcut  A portion ofthe printed sheet, in certain sizes of books, that is cut off before folding.
Offence  See Offense.
Offended  of Offend
Offending  of Offend
Offend  To strike against; to attack; to assail.
Offend  To displease; to make angry; to affront.
Offend  To be offensive to; to harm; to pain; to annoy; as, strong light offends the eye; to offend the conscience.
Offend  To transgress; to violate; to sin against.
Offend  To oppose or obstruct in duty; to cause to stumble; to cause to sin or to fall.
Odfend  To transgress the moral or divine law; to commit a crime; to stumble; to sin.
Odfend  To cause dislike, anger, or vexation; to displease.
Offendant  An offender.
Offender  One who offends; one who violates any law, divine or human; a wrongdoer.
Offendress  A woman who offends.
Offense  Alt. of Offence
Offence  The act of offending in any sense; esp., a crime or a sin, an affront or an injury.
Offence  The state of being offended or displeased; anger; displeasure.
Offence  A cause or occasion of stumbling or of sin.
Offenseful  Causing offense; displeasing; wrong; as, an offenseful act.
Offenseless  Unoffending; inoffensive.
Offensible  That may give offense.
Offension  Assault; attack.
Offensive  Giving offense; causing displeasure or resentment; displeasing; annoying; as, offensive words.
Offensive  Giving pain or unpleasant sensations; disagreeable; revolting; noxious; as, an offensive smell; offensive sounds.
Offensive  Making the first attack; assailant; aggressive; hence, used in attacking; -- opposed to defensive; as, an offensive war; offensive weapons.
Offensive  The state or posture of one who offends or makes attack; aggressive attitude; the act of the attacking party; -- opposed to defensive.
Offered  of Offer
Offering  of Offer
Offer  To present, as an act of worship; to immolate; to sacrifice; to present in prayer or devotion; -- often with up.
Offer  To bring to or before; to hold out to; to present for acceptance or rejection; as, to offer a present, or a bribe; to offer one's self in marriage.
Offer  To present in words; to proffer; to make a proposal of; to suggest; as, to offer an opinion. With the infinitive as an objective: To make an offer; to declare one's willingness; as, he offered to help me.
Offer  To attempt; to undertake.
Offer  To bid, as a price, reward, or wages; as, to offer a guinea for a ring; to offer a salary or reward.
Offer  To put in opposition to; to manifest in an offensive way; to threaten; as, to offer violence, attack, etc.
Offer  To present itself; to be at hand.
Offer  To make an attempt; to make an essay or a trial; -- used with at.
Offer  The act of offering, bringing forward, proposing, or bidding; a proffer; a first advance.
Offer  That which is offered or brought forward; a proposal to be accepted or rejected; a sum offered; a bid.
Offer  Attempt; endeavor; essay; as, he made an offer to catch the ball.
Offerable  Capable of being offered; suitable or worthy to be offered.
Offerer  One who offers; esp., one who offers something to God in worship.
Offering  The act of an offerer; a proffering.
Offering  That which is offered, esp. in divine service; that which is presented as an expiation or atonement for sin, or as a free gift; a sacrifice; an oblation; as, sin offering.
Offering  A sum of money offered, as in church service; as, a missionary offering. Specif.: (Ch. of Eng.) Personal tithes payable according to custom, either at certain seasons as Christmas or Easter, or on certain occasions as marriages or christenings.
Offertories  of Offertory
Offertory  The act of offering, or the thing offered.
Offertory  An anthem chanted, or a voluntary played on the organ, during the offering and first part of the Mass.
Offertory  That part of the Mass which the priest reads before uncovering the chalice to offer up the elements for consecration.
Offertory  The oblation of the elements.
Offertory  The Scripture sentences said or sung during the collection of the offerings.
Offertory  The offerings themselves.
Offerture  Offer; proposal; overture.
Offhand  Instant; ready; extemporaneous; as, an offhand speech; offhand excuses.
Offhand  In an offhand manner; as, he replied offhand.
Office  That which a person does, either voluntarily or by appointment, for, or with reference to, others; customary duty, or a duty that arises from the relations of man to man; as, kind offices, pious offices.
Office  A special duty, trust, charge, or position, conferred by authority and for a public purpose; a position of trust or authority; as, an executive or judical office; a municipal office.
Office  A charge or trust, of a sacred nature, conferred by God himself; as, the office of a priest under the old dispensation, and that of the apostles in the new.
Office  That which is performed, intended, or assigned to be done, by a particular thing, or that which anything is fitted to perform; a function; -- answering to duty in intelligent beings.
Office  The place where a particular kind of business or service for others is transacted; a house or apartment in which public officers and others transact business; as, the register's office; a lawyer's office.
Office  The company or corporation, or persons collectively, whose place of business is in an office; as, I have notified the office.
Office  The apartments or outhouses in which the domestics discharge the duties attached to the service of a house, as kitchens, pantries, stables, etc.
Office  Any service other than that of ordination and the Mass; any prescribed religious service.
Office  To perform, as the duties of an office; to discharge.
Officeholder  An officer, particularly one in the civil service; a placeman.
Officer  One who holds an office; a person lawfully invested with an office, whether civil, military, or ecclesiastical; as, a church officer; a police officer; a staff officer.
Officer  Specifically, a commissioned officer, in distinction from a warrant officer.
Officered  of Officer
Officering  of Officer
Officer  To furnish with officers; to appoint officers over.
Officer  To command as an officer; as, veterans from old regiments officered the recruits.
Official  Of or pertaining to an office or public trust; as, official duties, or routine.
Official  Derived from the proper office or officer, or from the proper authority; made or communicated by virtue of authority; as, an official statement or report.
Official  Approved by authority; sanctioned by the pharmacopoeia; appointed to be used in medicine; as, an official drug or preparation. Cf. Officinal.
Official  Discharging an office or function.
Official  One who holds an office; esp., a subordinate executive officer or attendant.
Official  An ecclesiastical judge appointed by a bishop, chapter, archdeacon, etc., with charge of the spiritual jurisdiction.
Officialism  The state of being official; a system of official government; also, adherence to office routine; red-tapism.
Officialily  See Officialty.
Officially  By the proper officer; by virtue of the proper authority; in pursuance of the special powers vested in an officer or office; as, accounts or reports officially vertified or rendered; letters officially communicated; persons officially notified.
Officialty  The charge, office, court, or jurisdiction of an official.
Officiant  The officer who officiates or performs an office, as the burial office.
Officiary  Of or pertaining to an office or an officer; official.
Officiated  of Officiate
Officiating  of Officiate
Officiate  To act as an officer in performing a duty; to transact the business of an office or public trust; to conduct a public service.
Officiate  To discharge, perform, or supply, as an official duty or function.
Officiator  One who officiates.
Officinal  Used in a shop, or belonging to it.
Officinal  Kept in stock by apothecaries; -- said of such drugs and medicines as may be obtained without special preparation or compounding; not magistral.
Officious  Pertaining to, or being in accordance with, duty.
Officious  Disposed to serve; kind; obliging.
Officious  Importunately interposing services; intermeddling in affairs in which one has no concern; meddlesome.
Offing  That part of the sea at a good distance from the shore, or where there is deep water and no need of a pilot; also, distance from the shore; as, the ship had ten miles offing; we saw a ship in the offing.
Offish  Shy or distant in manner.
Offlet  A pipe to let off water.
Offscouring  That which is scoured off; hence, refuse; rejected matter; that which is vile or despised.
Offscum  Removed scum; refuse; dross.
Offset  In general, that which is set off, from, before, or against, something
Offset  A short prostrate shoot, which takes root and produces a tuft of leaves, etc. See Illust. of Houseleek.
Offset  A sum, account, or value set off against another sum or account, as an equivalent; hence, anything which is given in exchange or retaliation; a set-off.
Offset  A spur from a range of hills or mountains.
Offset  A horizontal ledge on the face of a wall, formed by a diminution of its thickness, or by the weathering or upper surface of a part built out from it; -- called also set-off.
Offset  A short distance measured at right angles from a line actually run to some point in an irregular boundary, or to some object.
Offset  An abrupt bend in an object, as a rod, by which one part is turned aside out of line, but nearly parallel, with the rest; the part thus bent aside.
Offset  A more or less distinct transfer of a printed page or picture to the opposite page, when the pages are pressed together before the ink is dry or when it is poor.
Offset  of Offset
Pacha  The chief admiral of the Turkish fleet.
Pigpecker  The European garden warbler (Sylvia, / Currica, hortensis); -- called also beccafico and greater pettychaps.
Prigidity  The condition or quality of being frigid; coldness; want of warmth.
Prigidity  Want of ardor, animation, vivacity, etc.; coldness of affection or of manner; dullness; stiffness and formality; as, frigidity of a reception, of a bow, etc.
Prigidity  Want of heat or vigor; as, the frigidity of old age.
Paage  A toll for passage over another person's grounds.
Paard  The zebra.
Paas  Pace
Paas  The Easter festival.
Pabular  Of, pertaining to, or fit for, pabulum or food; affording food.
Pabulation  The act of feeding, or providing food.
Pabulation  Food; fodder; pabulum.
Pabulous  Affording pabulum, or food; alimental.
Pabulum  The means of nutriment to animals or plants; food; nourishment; hence, that which feeds or sustains, as fuel for a fire; that upon which the mind or soul is nourished; as, intellectual pabulum.
Pac  A kind of moccasin, having the edges of the sole turned up and sewed to the upper.
Paca  A small South American rodent (Coelogenys paca), having blackish brown fur, with four parallel rows of white spots along its sides; the spotted cavy. It is nearly allied to the agouti and the Guinea pig.
Pacable  Placable.
Pacane  A species of hickory. See Pecan.
Pacate  Appeased; pacified; tranquil.
Pacated  Pacified; pacate.
Pacation  The act of pacifying; a peacemaking.
Pace  A single movement from one foot to the other in walking; a step.
Pace  The length of a step in walking or marching, reckoned from the heel of one foot to the heel of the other; -- used as a unit in measuring distances; as, he advanced fifty paces.
Pace  Manner of stepping or moving; gait; walk; as, the walk, trot, canter, gallop, and amble are paces of the horse; a swaggering pace; a quick pace.
Pace  A slow gait; a footpace.
Pace  Specifically, a kind of fast amble; a rack.
Pace  Any single movement, step, or procedure.
Pace  A broad step or platform; any part of a floor slightly raised above the rest, as around an altar, or at the upper end of a hall.
Pace  A device in a loom, to maintain tension on the warp in pacing the web.
Paced  of Pace
Pacing  of Pace
Pace  To go; to walk; specifically, to move with regular or measured steps.
Pace  To proceed; to pass on.
Pace  To move quickly by lifting the legs on the same side together, as a horse; to amble with rapidity; to rack.
Pace  To pass away; to die.
Pace  To walk over with measured tread; to move slowly over or upon; as, the guard paces his round.
Pace  To measure by steps or paces; as, to pace a piece of ground.
Pace  To develop, guide, or control the pace or paces of; to teach the pace; to break in.
Paced  Having, or trained in, [such] a pace or gait; trained; -- used in composition; as, slow-paced; a thorough-paced villain.
Pacer  One who, or that which, paces; especially, a horse that paces.
Pacha  See Pasha.
Pachacamac  A divinity worshiped by the ancient Peruvians as the creator of the universe.
Pachak  The fragrant roots of the Saussurea Costus, exported from India to China, and used for burning as incense. It is supposed to be the costus of the ancients.
Pachalic  See Pashalic.
Pachisi  Alt. of Parchesi
Parchesi  A game, somewhat resembling backgammon, originating in India.
Pachometer  An instrument for measuring thickness, as of the glass of a mirror, or of paper; a pachymeter.
Pachonta  A substance resembling gutta-percha, and used to adulterate it, obtained from the East Indian tree Isonandra acuminata.
Pachy-  A combining form meaning thick; as, pachyderm, pachydactyl.
Pachycarpous  Having the pericarp thick.
Pachydactyl  A bird or other animal having thick toes.
Pachydactylous  Having thick toes.
Pachyderm  One of the Pachydermata.
Pachydermal  Of or relating to the pachyderms; as, pachydermal dentition.
Pachydermata  A group of hoofed mammals distinguished for the thickness of their skins, including the elephant, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, tapir, horse, and hog. It is now considered an artificial group.
Pachydermatous  Of or pertaining to the pachyderms.
Pachydermatous  Thick-skinned; not sensitive to ridicule.
Pachydermoid  Related to the pachyderms.
Pachyglossal  Having a thick tongue; -- applied to a group of lizards (Pachyglossae), including the iguanas and agamas.
Pachymeningitis  Inflammation of the dura mater or outer membrane of the brain.
Pachymeter  Same as Pachometer.
Pachyote  One of a family of bats, including those which have thick external ears.
Pacifiable  Capable of being pacified or appeased; placable.
Pacific  Of or pertaining to peace; suited to make or restore peace; of a peaceful character; not warlike; not quarrelsome; conciliatory; as, pacific words or acts; a pacific nature or condition.
Pacificable  Placable.
Pacifical  Of or pertaining to peace; pacific.
Pacification  The act or process of pacifying, or of making peace between parties at variance; reconciliation.
Pacificator  One who, or that which, pacifies; a peacemaker.
Pacificatory  Tending to make peace; conciliatory.
Pacfier  One who pacifies.
Pacified  of Pacify
Pacifying  of Pacify
Pacify  To make to be at peace; to appease; to calm; to still; to quiet; to allay the agitation, excitement, or resentment of; to tranquillize; as, to pacify a man when angry; to pacify pride, appetite, or importunity.
Pacinian  Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Filippo Pacini, an Italian physician of the 19th century.
Pack  A pact.
Pack  A bundle made up and prepared to be carried; especially, a bundle to be carried on the back; a load for an animal; a bale, as of goods.
Pack  A number or quantity equal to the contents of a pack; hence, a multitude; a burden.
Pack  A number or quantity of connected or similar things
Pack  A full set of playing cards; also, the assortment used in a particular game; as, a euchre pack.
Pack  A number of hounds or dogs, hunting or kept together.
Pack  A number of persons associated or leagued in a bad design or practice; a gang; as, a pack of thieves or knaves.
Pack  A shook of cask staves.
Pack  A bundle of sheet-iron plates for rolling simultaneously.
Pack  A large area of floating pieces of ice driven together more or less closely.
Pack  An envelope, or wrapping, of sheets used in hydropathic practice, called dry pack, wet pack, cold pack, etc., according to the method of treatment.
Pack  A loose, lewd, or worthless person. See Baggage.
Packed  of Pack
Packing  of Pack
Pack  To make a pack of; to arrange closely and securely in a pack; hence, to place and arrange compactly as in a pack; to press into close order or narrow compass; as to pack goods in a box; to pack fish.
Pack  To fill in the manner of a pack, that is, compactly and securely, as for transportation; hence, to fill closely or to repletion; to stow away within; to cause to be full; to crowd into; as, to pack a trunk; the play, or the audience, packs the theater.
Pack  To sort and arrange (the cards) in a pack so as to secure the game unfairly.
Pack  Hence: To bring together or make up unfairly and fraudulently, in order to secure a certain result; as, to pack a jury or a causes.
Pack  To contrive unfairly or fraudulently; to plot.
Pack  To load with a pack; hence, to load; to encumber; as, to pack a horse.
Pack  To cause to go; to send away with baggage or belongings; esp., to send away peremptorily or suddenly; -- sometimes with off; as, to pack a boy off to school.
Pack  To transport in a pack, or in the manner of a pack (i. e., on the backs of men or beasts).
Pack  To envelop in a wet or dry sheet, within numerous coverings. See Pack, n., 5.
Pack  To render impervious, as by filling or surrounding with suitable material, or to fit or adjust so as to move without giving passage to air, water, or steam; as, to pack a joint; to pack the piston of a steam engine.
Pack  To make up packs, bales, or bundles; to stow articles securely for transportation.
Pack  To admit of stowage, or of making up for transportation or storage; to become compressed or to settle together, so as to form a compact mass; as, the goods pack conveniently; wet snow packs well.
Pack  To gather in flocks or schools; as, the grouse or the perch begin to pack.
Pack  To depart in haste; -- generally with off or away.
Pack  To unite in bad measures; to confederate for ill purposes; to join in collusion.
Package  Act or process of packing.
Package  A bundle made up for transportation; a packet; a bale; a parcel; as, a package of goods.
Package  A charge made for packing goods.
Package  A duty formerly charged in the port of London on goods imported or exported by aliens, or by denizens who were the sons of aliens.
Packer  A person whose business is to pack things; especially, one who packs food for preservation; as, a pork packer.
Packet  A small pack or package; a little bundle or parcel; as, a packet of letters.
Packet  Originally, a vessel employed by government to convey dispatches or mails; hence, a vessel employed in conveying dispatches, mails, passengers, and goods, and having fixed days of sailing; a mail boat.
Packeted  of Packet
Packeting  of Packet
Packet  To make up into a packet or bundle.
Packet  To send in a packet or dispatch vessel.
Packet  To ply with a packet or dispatch boat.
Packfong  A Chinese alloy of nickel, zinc, and copper, resembling German silver.
Pack  See under 2d Pack.
Packhouse  Warehouse for storing goods.
Packing  The act or process of one who packs.
Packing  Any material used to pack, fill up, or make close.
Packing  A substance or piece used to make a joint impervious
Packing  A thin layer, or sheet, of yielding or elastic material inserted between the surfaces of a flange joint.
Packing  The substance in a stuffing box, through which a piston rod slides.
Packing  A yielding ring, as of metal, which surrounds a piston and maintains a tight fit, as inside a cylinder, etc.
Packing  Same as Filling.
Packing  A trick; collusion.
Packmen  of Packman
Packman  One who bears a pack; a peddler.
Pack  Alt. of Pack thread
Pack  See under 2d Pack.
Packwax  Same as Paxwax.
Packway  A path, as over mountains, followed by pack animals.
Paco  Alt. of Pacos
Pacos  Same as Alpaca.
Pacos  An earthy-looking ore, consisting of brown oxide of iron with minute particles of native silver.
Pact  An agreement; a league; a compact; a covenant.
Paction  An agreement; a compact; a bargain.
Pactional  Of the nature of, or by means of, a paction.
Pactitious  Setted by a pact, or agreement.
Pactolian  Pertaining to the Pactolus, a river in ancient Lydia famous for its golden sands.
Pacu  A South American freah-water fish (Myleies pacu), of the family Characinidae. It is highly esteemed as food.
Pad  A footpath; a road.
Pad  An easy-paced horse; a padnag.
Pad  A robber that infests the road on foot; a highwayman; -- usually called a footpad.
Pad  The act of robbing on the highway.
Pad  To travel upon foot; to tread.
Pad  To travel heavily or slowly.
Pad  To rob on foot.
Pad  To wear a path by walking.
Pad  A soft, or small, cushion; a mass of anything soft; stuffing.
Pad  A kind of cushion for writing upon, or for blotting; esp., one formed of many flat sheets of writing paper, or layers of blotting paper; a block of paper.
Pad  A cushion used as a saddle without a tree or frame.
Pad  A stuffed guard or protection; esp., one worn on the legs of horses to prevent bruising.
Pad  A cushionlike thickening of the skin one the under side of the toes of animals.
Pad  A floating leaf of a water lily or similar plant.
Pad  A soft bag or cushion to relieve pressure, support a part, etc.
Pad  A piece of timber fixed on a beam to fit the curve of the deck.
Pad  A measure for fish; as, sixty mackerel go to a pad; a basket of soles.
Padded  of Pad
Padding  of Pad
Pad  To stuff; to furnish with a pad or padding.
Pad  To imbue uniformly with a mordant; as, to pad cloth.
Padar  Groats; coarse flour or meal.
Padder  One who, or that which, pads.
Padder  A highwayman; a footpad.
Padding  The act or process of making a pad or of inserting stuffing.
Padding  The material with which anything is padded.
Padding  Material of inferior value, serving to extend a book, essay, etc.
Padding  The uniform impregnation of cloth with a mordant.
Paddle  To use the hands or fingers in toying; to make caressing strokes.
Paddle  To dabble in water with hands or feet; to use a paddle, or something which serves as a paddle, in swimming, in paddling a boat, etc.
Paddled  of Paddle
Paddling  of Paddle
Paddle  To pat or stroke amorously, or gently.
Paddle  To propel with, or as with, a paddle or paddles.
Paddle  To pad; to tread upon; to trample.
Paddle  An implement with a broad blade, which is used without a fixed fulcrum in propelling and steering canoes and boats.
Paddle  The broad part of a paddle, with which the stroke is made; hence, any short, broad blade, resembling that of a paddle.
Paddle  One of the broad boards, or floats, at the circumference of a water wheel, or paddle wheel.
Paddle  A small gate in sluices or lock gates to admit or let off water; -- also called clough.
Paddle  A paddle-shaped foot, as of the sea turtle.
Paddle  A paddle-shaped implement for string or mixing.
Paddle  See Paddle staff (b), below.
Paddlecock  The lumpfish.
Paddlefish  A large ganoid fish (Polyodon spathula) found in the rivers of the Mississippi Valley. It has a long spatula-shaped snout. Called also duck-billed cat, and spoonbill sturgeon.
Padder  One who, or that which, paddles.
Paddlewood  The light elastic wood of the Aspidosperma excelsum, a tree of Guiana having a fluted trunk readily split into planks.
Paddock  A toad or frog.
Paddock  A small inclosure or park for sporting.
Paddock  A small inclosure for pasture; esp., one adjoining a stable.
Paddy  Low; mean; boorish; vagabond.
Paddies  of Paddy
Paddy  A jocose or contemptuous name for an Irishman.
Paddy  Unhusked rice; -- commonly so called in the East Indies.
Padelion  A plant with pedately lobed leaves; the lady's mantle.
Padella  A large cup or deep saucer, containing fatty matter in which a wick is placed, -- used for public illuminations, as at St. Peter's, in Rome. Called also padelle.
Pademelon  See Wallaby.
Padesoy  See Paduasoy.
Padge  The barn owl; -- called also pudge, and pudge owl.
Padishah  Chief ruler; monarch; sovereign; -- a title of the Sultan of Turkey, and of the Shah of Persia.
Padlock  A portable lock with a bow which is usually jointed or pivoted at one end so that it can be opened, the other end being fastened by the bolt, -- used for fastening by passing the bow through a staple over a hasp or through the links of a chain, etc.
Padlock  Fig.: A curb; a restraint.
Padlocked  of Padlock
Padlocking  of Padlock
Padlock  To fasten with, or as with, a padlock; to stop; to shut; to confine as by a padlock.
Padnag  An ambling nag.
Padow  A paddock, or toad.
Padroni  of Padrone
Padrones  of Padrone
Padrone  A patron; a protector.
Padrone  The master of a small coaster in the Mediterranean.
Padrone  A man who imports, and controls the earnings of, Italian laborers, street musicians, etc.
Paduasoy  A rich and heavy silk stuff.
Paducahs  See Comanches.
Paean  An ancient Greek hymn in honor of Apollo as a healing deity, and, later, a song addressed to other deities.
Paean  Any loud and joyous song; a song of triumph.
Paean  See Paeon.
Paedobaptism  Pedobaptism.
Paedogenesis  Reproduction by young or larval animals.
Paedogenetic  Producing young while in the immature or larval state; -- said of certain insects, etc.
Paeon  A foot of four syllables, one long and three short, admitting of four combinations, according to the place of the long syllable.
Paeonine  An artifical red nitrogenous dyestuff, called also red coralline.
Paeony  See Peony.
Pagan  One who worships false gods; an idolater; a heathen; one who is neither a Christian, a Mohammedan, nor a Jew.
Pagan  Of or pertaining to pagans; relating to the worship or the worshipers of false goods; heathen; idolatrous, as, pagan tribes or superstitions.
Pagandom  The pagan lands; pagans, collectively; paganism.
Paganic  Alt. of Paganical
Paganical  Of or pertaining to pagans or paganism; heathenish; paganish.
Paganish  Of or pertaining to pagans; heathenish.
Paganism  The state of being pagan; pagan characteristics; esp., the worship of idols or false gods, or the system of religious opinions and worship maintained by pagans; heathenism.
Paganity  The state of being a pagan; paganism.
Paganized  of Paganize
Paganizing  of Paganize
Paganize  To render pagan or heathenish; to convert to paganism.
Paganize  To behave like pagans.
Paganly  In a pagan manner.
Page  A serving boy; formerly, a youth attending a person of high degree, especially at courts, as a position of honor and education; now commonly, in England, a youth employed for doing errands, waiting on the door, and similar service in households; in the United States, a boy employed to wait upon the members of a legislative body.
Page  A boy child.
Page  A contrivance, as a band, pin, snap, or the like, to hold the skirt of a woman's dress from the ground.
Page  A track along which pallets carrying newly molded bricks are conveyed to the hack.
Page  Any one of several species of beautiful South American moths of the genus Urania.
Page  To attend (one) as a page.
Page  One side of a leaf of a book or manuscript.
Page  Fig.: A record; a writing; as, the page of history.
Page  The type set up for printing a page.
Paged  of Page
Paging  of Page
Page  To mark or number the pages of, as a book or manuscript; to furnish with folios.
Pageant  A theatrical exhibition; a spectacle.
Pageant  An elaborate exhibition devised for the entertainmeut of a distinguished personage, or of the public; a show, spectacle, or display.
Pageant  Of the nature of a pageant; spectacular.
Pageant  To exhibit in show; to represent; to mimic.
Pageantry  Scenic shows or spectacles, taken collectively; spectacular quality; splendor.
Pagehood  The state of being a page.
Paginae  of Pagina
Pagina  The surface of a leaf or of a flattened thallus.
Paginal  Consisting of pages.
Pagination  The act or process of paging a book; also, the characters used in numbering the pages; page number.
Paging  The marking or numbering of the pages of a book.
Pagod  A pagoda. [R.] "Or some queer pagod."
Pagod  An idol.
Pagoda  A term by which Europeans designate religious temples and tower-like buildings of the Hindoos and Buddhists of India, Farther India, China, and Japan, -- usually but not always, devoted to idol worship.
Pagoda  An idol.
Pagoda  A gold or silver coin, of various kinds and values, formerly current in India. The Madras gold pagoda was worth about three and a half rupees.
Pagodite  Agalmatolite; -- so called because sometimes carved by the Chinese into the form of pagodas. See Agalmatolite.
Paguma  Any one of several species of East Indian viverrine mammals of the genus Paguma. They resemble a weasel in form.
Pagurian  Any one of a tribe of anomuran crustaceans, of which Pagurus is a type; the hermit crab. See Hermit crab, under Hermit.
Pah  An exclamation expressing disgust or contempt. See Bah.
Pah  A kind of stockaded intrenchment.
Pahi  A large war canoe of the Society Islands.
Pahlevi  Same as Pehlevi.
Pahoehoe  A name given in the Sandwich Islands to lava having a relatively smooth surface, in distinction from the rough-surfaced lava, called a-a.
PahUtes  See Utes.
Paid  Receiving pay; compensated; hired; as, a paid attorney.
Paid  Satisfied; contented.
Paideutics  The science or art of teaching.
Paien  Pagan.
Paigle  A species of Primula, either the cowslip or the primrose.
Paijama  Pyjama.
Pail  A vessel of wood or tin, etc., usually cylindrical and having a bail, -- used esp. for carrying liquids, as water or milk, etc.; a bucket. It may, or may not, have a cover.
Pailfuls  of Pailful
Pailful  The quantity that a pail will hold.
Paillasse  An under bed or mattress of straw.
Pailmall  See Pall-mall.
Pain  Punishment suffered or denounced; suffering or evil inflicted as a punishment for crime, or connected with the commission of a crime; penalty.
Pain  Any uneasy sensation in animal bodies, from slight uneasiness to extreme distress or torture, proceeding from a derangement of functions, disease, or injury by violence; bodily distress; bodily suffering; an ache; a smart.
Pain  Specifically, the throes or travail of childbirth.
Pain  Uneasiness of mind; mental distress; disquietude; anxiety; grief; solicitude; anguish.
Pain  See Pains, labor, effort.
Pained  of Pain
Paining  of Pain
Pain  To inflict suffering upon as a penalty; to punish.
Pain  To put to bodily uneasiness or anguish; to afflict with uneasy sensations of any degree of intensity; to torment; to torture; as, his dinner or his wound pained him; his stomach pained him.
Pain  To render uneasy in mind; to disquiet; to distress; to grieve; as a child's faults pain his parents.
Painable  Causing pain; painful.
Painful  Full of pain; causing uneasiness or distress, either physical or mental; afflictive; disquieting; distressing.
Painful  Requiring labor or toil; difficult; executed with laborious effort; as a painful service; a painful march.
Painful  Painstaking; careful; industrious.
Painim  A pagan; an infidel; -- used also adjectively.
Painless  Free from pain; without pain.
Pains  Labor; toilsome effort; care or trouble taken; -- plural in form, but used with a singular or plural verb, commonly the former.
Painstaker  One who takes pains; one careful and faithful in all work.
Painstaking  Careful in doing; diligent; faithful; attentive.
Painstaking  The act of taking pains; carefulness and fidelity in performance.
Painsworthy  Worth the pains or care bestowed.
Painted  of Paint
Painting  of Paint
Paint  To cover with coloring matter; to apply paint to; as, to paint a house, a signboard, etc.
Paint  Fig.: To color, stain, or tinge; to adorn or beautify with colors; to diversify with colors.
Paint  To form in colors a figure or likeness of on a flat surface, as upon canvas; to represent by means of colors or hues; to exhibit in a tinted image; to portray with paints; as, to paint a portrait or a landscape.
Paint  Fig.: To represent or exhibit to the mind; to describe vividly; to delineate; to image; to depict.
Paint  To practice the art of painting; as, the artist paints well.
Paint  To color one's face by way of beautifying it.
Paint  A pigment or coloring substance.
Paint  The same prepared with a vehicle, as oil, water with gum, or the like, for application to a surface.
Paint  A cosmetic; rouge.
Painted  Covered or adorned with paint; portrayed in colors.
Painted  Marked with bright colors; as, the painted turtle; painted bunting.
Painter  A rope at the bow of a boat, used to fasten it to anything.
Painter  The panther, or puma.
Painter  One whose occupation is to paint
Painter  One who covers buildings, ships, ironwork, and the like, with paint.
Painter  An artist who represents objects or scenes in color on a flat surface, as canvas, plaster, or the like.
Painterly  Like a painter's work.
Paintership  The state or position of being a painter.
Painting  The act or employment of laying on, or adorning with, paints or colors.
Painting  The work of the painter; also, any work of art in which objects are represented in color on a flat surface; a colored representation of any object or scene; a picture.
Painting  Color laid on; paint.
Painting  A depicting by words; vivid representation in words.
Paintless  Not capable of being painted or described.
Painture  The art of painting.
Painty  Unskillfully painted, so that the painter's method of work is too obvious; also, having too much pigment applied to the surface.
Pair  A number of things resembling one another, or belonging together; a set; as, a pair or flight of stairs. "A pair of beads." Chaucer. Beau. & Fl. "Four pair of stairs." Macaulay. [Now mostly or quite disused, except as to stairs.]
Pair  Two things of a kind, similar in form, suited to each other, and intended to be used together; as, a pair of gloves or stockings; a pair of shoes.
Pair  Two of a sort; a span; a yoke; a couple; a brace; as, a pair of horses; a pair of oxen.
Pair  A married couple; a man and wife.
Pair  A single thing, composed of two pieces fitted to each other and used together; as, a pair of scissors; a pair of tongs; a pair of bellows.
Pair  Two members of opposite parties or opinion, as in a parliamentary body, who mutually agree not to vote on a given question, or on issues of a party nature during a specified time; as, there were two pairs on the final vote.
Pair  In a mechanism, two elements, or bodies, which are so applied to each other as to mutually constrain relative motion.
Pairs  of Pair
Paired  of Pair
Pairing  of Pair
Pair  To be joined in paris; to couple; to mate, as for breeding.
Pair  To suit; to fit, as a counterpart.
Pair  Same as To pair off. See phrase below.
Pair  To unite in couples; to form a pair of; to bring together, as things which belong together, or which complement, or are adapted to one another.
Pair  To engage (one's self) with another of opposite opinions not to vote on a particular question or class of questions.
Pair  To impair.
Pairer  One who impairs.
Pairing  The act or process of uniting or arranging in pairs or couples.
Pairing  See To pair off, under Pair, v. i.
Pairment  Impairment.
Pais  The country; the people of the neighborhood.
Paisano  The chaparral cock.
Paise  See Poise.
Pajock  A peacock.
Pakfong  See Packfong.
Pal  A mate; a partner; esp., an accomplice or confederate.
Palace  The residence of a sovereign, including the lodgings of high officers of state, and rooms for business, as well as halls for ceremony and reception.
Palace  The official residence of a bishop or other distinguished personage.
Palace  Loosely, any unusually magnificent or stately house.
Palacious  Palatial.
Paladin  A knight-errant; a distinguished champion; as, the paladins of Charlemagne.
Palaeo-  See Paleo-.
Palaeographer  Alt. of Palaeographic
Palaeographic  See Paleographer, Paleographic, etc.
Palaeotype  A system of representing all spoken sounds by means of the printing types in common use.
Palaestra  See Palestra.
Palaestric  See Palestric.
Palaetiologist  One versed in palaetiology.
Palaetiology  The science which explains, by the law of causation, the past condition and changes of the earth.
Palamme  of Palama
Palama  A membrane extending between the toes of a bird, and uniting them more or less closely together.
Palamedeae  An order, or suborder, including the kamichi, and allied South American birds; -- called also screamers. In many anatomical characters they are allied to the Anseres, but they externally resemble the wading birds.
Palampore  See Palempore.
Palanka  A camp permanently intrenched, attached to Turkish frontier fortresses.
Palanquin  An inclosed carriage or litter, commonly about eight feet long, four feet wide, and four feet high, borne on the shoulders of men by means of two projecting poles, -- used in India, China, etc., for the conveyance of a single person from place to place.
Palapteryx  A large extinct ostrichlike bird of New Zealand.
Palatability  Palatableness.
Palatable  Agreeable to the palate or taste; savory; hence, acceptable; pleasing; as, palatable food; palatable advice.
Palatableness  The quality or state of being agreeable to the taste; relish; acceptableness.
Palatably  In a palatable manner.
Palatal  Of or pertaining to the palate; palatine; as, the palatal bones.
Palatal  Uttered by the aid of the palate; -- said of certain sounds, as the sound of k in kirk.
Palatal  A sound uttered, or a letter pronounced, by the aid of the palate, as the letters k and y.
Palatalize  To palatize.
Palate  The roof of the mouth.
Palate  Relish; taste; liking; -- a sense originating in the mistaken notion that the palate is the organ of taste.
Palate  Fig.: Mental relish; intellectual taste.
Palate  A projection in the throat of such flowers as the snapdragon.
Palate  To perceive by the taste.
Palatial  Of or pertaining to a palace; suitable for a palace; resembling a palace; royal; magnificent; as, palatial structures.
Palatial  Palatal; palatine.
Palatial  A palatal letter.
Palatic  Palatal; palatine.
Palatic  A palatal.
Palatinate  The province or seigniory of a palatine; the dignity of a palatine.
Palatinate  To make a palatinate of.
Palatine  Of or pertaining to a palace, or to a high officer of a palace; hence, possessing royal privileges.
Palatine  One invested with royal privileges and rights within his domains; a count palatine. See Count palatine, under 4th Count.
Palatine  The Palatine hill in Rome.
Palatine  Of or pertaining to the palate.
Palatine  A palatine bone.
Palative  Pleasing to the taste; palatable.
Palatize  To modify, as the tones of the voice, by means of the palate; as, to palatize a letter or sound.
Palato-  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate relation to, or connection with, the palate; as in palatolingual.
Palatonares  The posterior nares. See Nares.
Palatopterygoid  Pertaining to the palatine and pterygoid region of the skull; as, the palatopterygoid cartilage, or rod, from which the palatine and pterygoid bones are developed.
Palaver  Talk; conversation; esp., idle or beguiling talk; talk intended to deceive; flattery.
Palaver  In Africa, a parley with the natives; a talk; hence, a public conference and deliberation; a debate.
Palavered  of Palaver
Palavering  of Palaver
Palaver  To make palaver with, or to; to used palaver;to talk idly or deceitfully; to employ flattery; to cajole; as, to palaver artfully.
Palaverer  One who palavers; a flatterer.
Pale  Wanting in color; not ruddy; dusky white; pallid; wan; as, a pale face; a pale red; a pale blue.
Pale  Not bright or brilliant; of a faint luster or hue; dim; as, the pale light of the moon.
Pale  Paleness; pallor.
Paled  of Pale
Paling  of Pale
Pale  To turn pale; to lose color or luster.
Pale  To make pale; to diminish the brightness of.
Pale  A pointed stake or slat, either driven into the ground, or fastened to a rail at the top and bottom, for fencing or inclosing; a picket.
Pale  That which incloses or fences in; a boundary; a limit; a fence; a palisade.
Pale  A space or field having bounds or limits; a limited region or place; an inclosure; -- often used figuratively.
Pale  A stripe or band, as on a garment.
Pale  One of the greater ordinaries, being a broad perpendicular stripe in an escutcheon, equally distant from the two edges, and occupying one third of it.
Pale  A cheese scoop.
Pale  A shore for bracing a timber before it is fastened.
Pale  To inclose with pales, or as with pales; to encircle; to encompass; to fence off.
Paleae  of Palea
Palea  The interior chaff or husk of grasses.
Palea  One of the chaffy scales or bractlets growing on the receptacle of many compound flowers, as the Coreopsis, the sunflower, etc.
Palea  A pendulous process of the skin on the throat of a bird, as in the turkey; a dewlap.
Paleaceous  Chaffy; resembling or consisting of paleae, or chaff; furnished with chaff; as, a paleaceous receptacle.
Palearctic  Belonging to a region of the earth's surface which includes all Europe to the Azores, Iceland, and all temperate Asia.
Paled  Striped.
Paled  Inclosed with a paling.
Paleechinoidea  An extinct order of sea urchins found in the Paleozoic rocks. They had more than twenty vertical rows of plates. Called also Palaeechini.
Paleface  A white person; -- an appellation supposed to have been applied to the whites by the American Indians.
Paleichthyes  A comprehensive division of fishes which includes the elasmobranchs and ganoids.
Palely  In a pale manner; dimly; wanly; not freshly or ruddily.
Palempore  A superior kind of dimity made in India, -- used for bed coverings.
Paleness  The quality or condition of being pale; want of freshness or ruddiness; a sickly whiteness; lack of color or luster; wanness.
Palenque  A collective name for the Indians of Nicaragua and Honduras.
Paleo-  A combining form meaning old, ancient; as, palearctic, paleontology, paleothere, paleography.
Paleobotanist  One versed in paleobotany.
Paleobotany  That branch of paleontology which treats of fossil plants.
Paleocarida  Same as Merostomata.
Paleocrinoidea  A suborder of Crinoidea found chiefly in the Paleozoic rocks.
Paleocrystic  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, a former glacial formation.
Paleogaean  Of or pertaining to the Eastern hemisphere.
Paleograph  An ancient manuscript.
Paleographer  One skilled in paleography; a paleographist.
Paleographic  Alt. of Paleographical
Paleographical  Of or pertaining to paleography.
Paleographist  One versed in paleography; a paleographer.
Paleography  An ancient manner of writing; ancient writings, collectively; as, Punic paleography.
Paleography  The study of ancient inscriptions and modes of writing; the art or science of deciphering ancient writings, and determining their origin, period, etc., from external characters; diplomatics.
Paleolae  of Paleola
Paleola  A diminutive or secondary palea; a lodicule.
Paleolith  A relic of the Paleolithic era.
Paleolithic  Of or pertaining to an era marked by early stone implements. The Paleolithic era (as proposed by Lubbock) includes the earlier half of the "Stone Age;" the remains belonging to it are for the most part of extinct animals, with relics of human beings.
Paleologist  One versed in paleology; a student of antiquity.
Paleology  The study or knowledge of antiquities, esp. of prehistoric antiquities; a discourse or treatise on antiquities; archaeology .
Paleontographical  Of or pertaining to the description of fossil remains.
Paleontography  The description of fossil remains.
Paleontological  Of or pertaining to paleontology.
Paleontologist  One versed in paleontology.
Paleontology  The science which treats of the ancient life of the earth, or of fossils which are the remains of such life.
Paleophytologist  A paleobotanist.
Paleophytology  Paleobotany.
Paleornithology  The branch of paleontology which treats of fossil birds.
Paleosaurus  A genus of fossil saurians found in the Permian formation.
Paleotechnic  Belonging to, or connected with, ancient art.
Paleothere  Any species of Paleotherium.
Paleotherian  Of or pertaining to Paleotherium.
Paleotherium  An extinct genus of herbivorous Tertiary mammals, once supposed to have resembled the tapir in form, but now known to have had a more slender form, with a long neck like that of a llama.
Paleotheroid  Resembling Paleotherium.
Paleotheroid  An animal resembling, or allied to, the paleothere.
Paleotype  See Palaeotype.
Paleous  Chaffy; like chaff; paleaceous.
Paleozoic  Of or pertaining to, or designating, the older division of geological time during which life is known to have existed, including the Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous ages, and also to the life or rocks of those ages. See Chart of Geology.
Paleozoology  The Paleozoic time or strata.
Paleozooogy  The science of extinct animals, a branch of paleontology.
Palesie  Alt. of Palesy
Palesy  Palsy.
Palestinian  Alt. of Palestinean
Palestinean  Of or pertaining to Palestine.
Palestrae  of Palestra
Palestras  of Palestra
Palestra  A wrestling school; hence, a gymnasium, or place for athletic exercise in general.
Palestra  A wrestling; the exercise of wrestling.
Palestrian  Alt. of Palestrical
Palestric  Alt. of Palestrical
Palestrical  Of or pertaining to the palestra, or to wrestling.
Palet  Same as Palea.
Paletot  An overcoat.
Paletot  A lady's outer garment, -- of varying fashion.
Palette  A thin, oval or square board, or tablet, with a thumb hole at one end for holding it, on which a painter lays and mixes his pigments.
Palette  One of the plates covering the points of junction at the bend of the shoulders and elbows.
Palette  A breastplate for a breast drill.
Palewise  In the manner of a pale or pales; by perpendicular lines or divisions; as, to divide an escutcheon palewise.
Palfrey  A saddle horse for the road, or for state occasions, as distinguished from a war horse.
Palfrey  A small saddle horse for ladies.
Palfreyed  Mounted on a palfrey.
Palgrave  See Palsgrave.
Pali  pl. of Palus.
Pali  A dialect descended from Sanskrit, and like that, a dead language, except when used as the sacred language of the Buddhist religion in Farther India, etc.
Palification  The act or practice of driving piles or posts into the ground to make it firm.
Paliform  Resembling a palus; as, the paliform lobes of the septa in corals.
Palilogy  The repetition of a word, or part of a sentence, for the sake of greater emphasis; as, "The living, the living, he shall praise thee."
Palimpsest  A parchment which has been written upon twice, the first writing having been erased to make place for the second.
Palindrome  A word, verse, or sentence, that is the same when read backward or forward; as, madam; Hannah; or Lewd did I live, & evil I did dwel.
Palindromic  Alt. of Palindromical
Palindromical  Of, pertaining to, or like, a palindrome.
Palindromist  A writer of palindromes.
Paling  Pales, in general; a fence formed with pales or pickets; a limit; an inclosure.
Paling  The act of placing pales or stripes on cloth; also, the stripes themselves.
Palingenesia  See Palingenesis.
Palingenesis  Alt. of Palingenesy
Palingenesy  A new birth; a re-creation; a regeneration; a continued existence in different manner or form.
Palingenesy  That form of evolution in which the truly ancestral characters conserved by heredity are reproduced in development; original simple descent; -- distinguished from kenogenesis. Sometimes, in zoology, the abrupt metamorphosis of insects, crustaceans, etc.
Palingenetic  Of or pertaining to palingenesis: as, a palingenetic process.
Palinode  An ode recanting, or retracting, a former one; also, a repetition of an ode.
Palinode  A retraction; esp., a formal retraction.
Palinodial  Of or pertaining to a palinode, or retraction.
Palinody  See Palinode.
Palinurus  An instrument for obtaining directly, without calculation, the true bearing of the sun, and thence the variation of the compass
Palisade  A strong, long stake, one end of which is set firmly in the ground, and the other is sharpened; also, a fence formed of such stakes set in the ground as a means of defense.
Palisade  Any fence made of pales or sharp stakes.
Palisaded  of Palisade
Palisading  of Palisade
Palisade  To surround, inclose, or fortify, with palisades.
Palisading  A row of palisades set in the ground.
Palisadoes  of Palisado
Palisado  A palisade.
Palisado  To palisade.
Palish  Somewhat pale or wan.
Palissander  Violet wood.
Palissander  Rosewood.
Palissy  Designating, or of the nature of, a kind of pottery made by Bernard Palissy, in France, in the 16th centry.
Palkee  A palanquin.
Pall  Same as Pawl.
Pall  An outer garment; a cloak mantle.
Pall  A kind of rich stuff used for garments in the Middle Ages.
Pall  Same as Pallium.
Pall  A figure resembling the Roman Catholic pallium, or pall, and having the form of the letter Y.
Pall  A large cloth, esp., a heavy black cloth, thrown over a coffin at a funeral; sometimes, also, over a tomb.
Pall  A piece of cardboard, covered with linen and embroidered on one side; -- used to put over the chalice.
Pall  To cloak.
Palled  of Pall
Palling  of Pall
Pall  To become vapid, tasteless, dull, or insipid; to lose strength, life, spirit, or taste; as, the liquor palls.
Pall  To make vapid or insipid; to make lifeless or spiritless; to dull; to weaken.
Pall  To satiate; to cloy; as, to pall the appetite.
Pall  Nausea.
Palla  An oblong rectangular piece of cloth, worn by Roman ladies, and fastened with brooches.
Palladian  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a variety of the revived classic style of architecture, founded on the works of Andrea Palladio, an Italian architect of the 16th century.
Palladic  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, palladium; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with palladious compounds.
Palladious  Of, pertaining to, or containing, palladium; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which palladium has a lower valence as compared with palladic compounds.
Palladium  Any statue of the goddess Pallas; esp., the famous statue on the preservation of which depended the safety of ancient Troy.
Palladium  Hence: That which affords effectual protection or security; a sateguard; as, the trial by jury is the palladium of our civil rights.
Palladium  A rare metallic element of the light platinum group, found native, and also alloyed with platinum and gold. It is a silver-white metal resembling platinum, and like it permanent and untarnished in the air, but is more easily fusible. It is unique in its power of occluding hydrogen, which it does to the extent of nearly a thousand volumes, forming the alloy Pd2H. It is used for graduated circles and verniers, for plating certain silver goods, and somewhat in dentistry. It was so named in 1804 by Wollaston from the asteroid Pallas, which was discovered in 1802. Symbol Pd. Atomic weight, 106.2.
Palladiumized  of Paladiumize
Palladiumizing  of Paladiumize
Paladiumize  To cover or coat with palladium.
Pallah  A large South African antelope (Aepyceros melampus). The male has long lyrate and annulated horns. The general color is bay, with a black crescent on the croup. Called also roodebok.
Pallas  Pallas Athene, the Grecian goddess of wisdom, called also Athene, and identified, at a later period, with the Roman Minerva.
Pallbearer  One of those who attend the coffin at a funeral; -- so called from the pall being formerly carried by them.
Pallet  A small and mean bed; a bed of straw.
Palet  A perpendicular band upon an escutcheon, one half the breadth of the pale.
Pallet  Same as Palette.
Pallet  A wooden implement used by potters, crucible makers, etc., for forming, beating, and rounding their works. It is oval, round, and of other forms.
Pallet  A potter's wheel.
Pallet  An instrument used to take up gold leaf from the pillow, and to apply it.
Pallet  A tool for gilding the backs of books over the bands.
Pallet  A board on which a newly molded brick is conveyed to the hack.
Pallet  A click or pawl for driving a ratchet wheel.
Pallet  One of the series of disks or pistons in the chain pump.
Pallet  One of the pieces or levers connected with the pendulum of a clock, or the balance of a watch, which receive the immediate impulse of the scape-wheel, or balance wheel.
Pallet  In the organ, a valve between the wind chest and the mouth of a pipe or row of pipes.
Pallet  One of a pair of shelly plates that protect the siphon tubes of certain bivalves, as the Teredo. See Illust. of Teredo.
Pallet  A cup containing three ounces, -- /ormerly used by surgeons.
Pallial  Of or pretaining to a mantle, especially to the mantle of mollusks; produced by the mantle; as, the pallial line, or impression, which marks the attachment of the mantle on the inner surface of a bivalve shell. See Illust. of Bivalve.
Palliament  A dress; a robe.
Palliard  A born beggar; a vagabond.
Palliard  A lecher; a lewd person.
Palliasse  See Paillasse.
Palliate  Covered with a mant/e; cloaked; disguised.
Palliate  Eased; mitigated; alleviated.
Palliated  of Palliate
Palliating  of Palliate
Palliate  To cover with a mantle or cloak; to cover up; to hide.
Palliate  To cover with excuses; to conceal the enormity of, by excuses and apologies; to extenuate; as, to palliate faults.
Palliate  To reduce in violence; to lessen or abate; to mitigate; to ease withhout curing; as, to palliate a disease.
Palliation  The act of palliating, or state of being palliated; extenuation; excuse; as, the palliation of faults, offenses, vices.
Palliation  Mitigation; alleviation, as of a disease.
Palliation  That which cloaks or covers; disguise; also, the state of being covered or disguised.
Palliative  Serving to palliate; serving to extenuate or mitigate.
Palliative  That which palliates; a palliative agent.
Palliatory  Palliative; extenuating.
Pallid  Deficient in color; pale; wan; as, a pallid countenance; pallid blue.
Pallidity  Pallidness; paleness.
Pallidly  In a pallid manner.
Pallidness  The quality or state of being pallid; paleness; pallor; wanness.
Palliobranchiata  Same as Brachiopoda.
Palliobranchiate  Having the pallium, or mantle, acting as a gill, as in brachiopods.
Pallia  of Pallium
Palliums  of Pallium
Pallium  A large, square, woolen cloak which enveloped the whole person, worn by the Greeks and by certain Romans. It is the Roman name of a Greek garment.
Pallium  A band of white wool, worn on the shoulders, with four purple crosses worked on it; a pall.
Pallium  The mantle of a bivalve. See Mantle.
Pallium  The mantle of a bird.
Pall-mall  A game formerly common in England, in which a wooden ball was driven with a mallet through an elevated hoop or ring of iron. The name was also given to the mallet used, to the place where the game was played, and to the street, in London, still called Pall Mall.
Pallone  An Italian game, played with a large leather ball.
Pallor  Paleness; want of color; pallidity; as, pallor of the complexion.
Palm  The inner and somewhat concave part of the hand between the bases of the fingers and the wrist.
Palm  A lineal measure equal either to the breadth of the hand or to its length from the wrist to the ends of the fingers; a hand; -- used in measuring a horse's height.
Palm  A metallic disk, attached to a strap, and worn the palm of the hand, -- used to push the needle through the canvas, in sewing sails, etc.
Palm  The broad flattened part of an antler, as of a full-grown fallow deer; -- so called as resembling the palm of the hand with its protruding fingers.
Palm  The flat inner face of an anchor fluke.
Palm  Any endogenous tree of the order Palmae or Palmaceae; a palm tree.
Palm  A branch or leaf of the palm, anciently borne or worn as a symbol of victory or rejoicing.
Palm  Any symbol or token of superiority, success, or triumph; also, victory; triumph; supremacy.
Palmed  of Palm
Palming  of Palm
Palm  To handle.
Palm  To manipulate with, or conceal in, the palm of the hand; to juggle.
Palm  To impose by fraud, as by sleight of hand; to put by unfair means; -- usually with off.
Palmaceous  Of or pertaining to palms; of the nature of, or resembling, palms.
Palma  A plant (Ricinus communis) with ornamental peltate and palmately cleft foliage, growing as a woody perennial in the tropics, and cultivated as an herbaceous annual in temperate regions; -- called also castor-oil plant.
Palmacite  A fossil palm.
Palmar  Pertaining to, or corresponding with, the palm of the hand.
Palmar  Of or pertaining to the under side of the wings of birds.
Palmaria  of Palmarium
Palmarium  One of the bifurcations of the brachial plates of a crinoid.
Palmary  Palmar.
Palmary  Worthy of the palm; palmy; preeminent; superior; principal; chief; as, palmary work.
Palmate  A salt of palmic acid; a ricinoleate.
Palmate  Alt. of Palmated
Palmated  Having the shape of the hand; resembling a hand with the fingers spread.
Palmated  Spreading from the apex of a petiole, as the divisions of a leaf, or leaflets, so as to resemble the hand with outspread fingers.
Palmated  Having the anterior toes united by a web, as in most swimming birds; webbed.
Palmated  Having the distal portion broad, flat, and more or less divided into lobes; -- said of certain corals, antlers, etc.
Palmately  In a palmate manner.
Palmatifid  Palmate, with the divisions separated but little more than halfway to the common center.
Palmatilobed  Palmate, with the divisions separated less than halfway to the common center.
Palmatisect  Alt. of Palmatisected
Palmatisected  Divided, as a palmate leaf, down to the midrib, so that the parenchyma is interrupted.
Palmcrist  The palma Christi. (Jonah iv. 6, margin, and Douay version, note.)
Palmed  Having or bearing a palm or palms.
Palmer  One who palms or cheats, as at cards or dice.
Palmer  A wandering religious votary; especially, one who bore a branch of palm as a token that he had visited the Holy Land and its sacred places.
Palmer  A palmerworm.
Palmer  Short for Palmer fly, an artificial fly made to imitate a hairy caterpillar; a hackle.
Palmerworm  Any hairy caterpillar which appears in great numbers, devouring herbage, and wandering about like a palmer. The name is applied also to other voracious insects.
Palmerworm  In America, the larva of any one of several moths, which destroys the foliage of fruit and forest trees, esp. the larva of Ypsolophus pometellus, which sometimes appears in vast numbers.
Palmette  A floral ornament, common in Greek and other ancient architecture; -- often called the honeysuckle ornament.
Palmetto  A name given to palms of several genera and species growing in the West Indies and the Southern United States. In the United States, the name is applied especially to the Chamaerops, / Sabal, Palmetto, the cabbage tree of Florida and the Carolinas. See Cabbage tree, under Cabbage.
Palmic  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi); -- formerly used to designate an acid now called ricinoleic acid.
Palmidactyles  A group of wading birds having the toes webbed, as the avocet.
Palmiferous  Bearing palms.
Palmigrade  Putting the whole foot upon the ground in walking, as some mammals.
Palmin  A white waxy or fatty substance obtained from castor oil.
Palmin  Ricinolein.
Palmiped  Web-footed, as a water fowl.
Palmiped  A swimming bird; a bird having webbed feet.
Palmipedes  Same as Natatores.
Palmister  One who practices palmistry
Palmistry  The art or practice of divining or telling fortunes, or of judging of character, by the lines and marks in the palm of the hand; chiromancy.
Palmistry  A dexterous use or trick of the hand.
Palmitate  A salt of palmitic acid.
Palmite  A South African plant (Prionium Palmita) of the Rush family, having long serrated leaves. The stems have been used for making brushes.
Palmitic  Pertaining to, or obtained from, palmitin or palm oil; as, palmitic acid, a white crystalline body belonging to the fatty acid series. It is readily soluble in hot alcohol, and melts to a liquid oil at 62 C.
Palmitin  A solid crystallizable fat, found abundantly in animals and in vegetables. It occurs mixed with stearin and olein in the fat of animal tissues, with olein and butyrin in butter, with olein in olive oil, etc. Chemically, it is a glyceride of palmitic acid, three molecules of palmitic acid being united to one molecule of glyceryl, and hence it is technically called tripalmitin, or glyceryl tripalmitate.
Palmitolic  Pertaining to, or designating, an artificial acid of the oleic acid series, isomeric with linoleic acid.
Palmitone  The ketone of palmitic acid.
Palm  The Sunday next before Easter; -- so called in commemoration of our Savior's triumphal entry into Jerusalem, when the multitude strewed palm branches in the way.
Palmy  Bearing palms; abounding in palms; derived from palms; as, a palmy shore.
Palmy  Worthy of the palm; flourishing; prosperous.
Palmyra  A species of palm (Borassus flabelliformis) having a straight, black, upright trunk, with palmate leaves. It is found native along the entire northern shores of the Indian Ocean, from the mouth of the Tigris to New Guinea. More than eight hundred uses to which it is put are enumerated by native writers. Its wood is largely used for building purposes; its fruit and roots serve for food, its sap for making toddy, and its leaves for thatching huts.
Palola  An annelid (Palola viridis) which, at certain seasons of the year, swarms at the surface of the sea about some of the Pacific Islands, where it is collected for food.
Pallometa  A pompano.
Palp  Same as Palpus.
Palp  To have a distinct touch or feeling of; to feel.
Palpability  The quality of being palpable, or perceptible by the touch.
Palpable  Capable of being touched and felt; perceptible by the touch; as, a palpable form.
Palpable  Easily perceptible; plain; distinct; obvious; readily perceived and detected; gross; as, palpable imposture; palpable absurdity; palpable errors.
Palpation  Act of touching or feeling.
Palpation  Examination of a patient by touch.
Palpator  One of a family of clavicorn beetles, including those which have very long maxillary palpi.
Palpebrae  of Palpebra
Palpebra  The eyelid.
Palpebral  Of or pertaining to the eyelids.
Palprbrate  Having eyelids.
Palped  Having a palpus.
Palpi  pl. of Palpus. (Zool.) See Palpus.
Palpicorn  One of a group of aquatic beetles (Palpicornia) having short club-shaped antennae, and long maxillary palpi.
Palpifer  Same as Palpiger.
Palpiform  Having the form of a palpus.
Palpiger  That portion of the labium which bears the palpi in insects.
Palpigerous  Bearing a palpus.
Palpitant  Palpitating; throbbing; trembling.
Palpitated  of Palpitate
Palpitating  of Palpitate
Palpitate  To beat rapidly and more strongly than usual; to throb; to bound with emotion or exertion; to pulsate violently; to flutter; -- said specifically of the heart when its action is abnormal, as from excitement.
Palpitation  A rapid pulsation; a throbbing; esp., an abnormal, rapid beating of the heart as when excited by violent exertion, strong emotion, or by disease.
Palpless  Without a palpus.
Palpocil  A minute soft filamentary process springing from the surface of certain hydroids and sponges.
Palpi  of Palpus
Palpus  A feeler; especially, one of the jointed sense organs attached to the mouth organs of insects, arachnids, crustaceans, and annelids; as, the mandibular palpi, maxillary palpi, and labial palpi. The palpi of male spiders serve as sexual organs. Called also palp. See Illust. of Arthrogastra and Orthoptera.
Palsgrave  A count or earl who presided in the domestic court, and had the superintendence, of a royal household in Germany.
Palsgravine  The consort or widow of a palsgrave.
Palsical  Affected with palsy; palsied; paralytic.
Palsied  Affected with palsy; paralyzed.
Palstave  A peculiar bronze adz, used in prehistoric Europe about the middle of the bronze age.
Palster  A pilgrim's staff.
Palsies  of Palsy
Palsy  Paralysis, complete or partial. See Paralysis.
Palsied  of Palsy
Palsying  of Palsy
Palsy  To affect with palsy, or as with palsy; to deprive of action or energy; to paralyze.
Palsywort  The cowslip (Primula veris); -- so called from its supposed remedial powers.
Paltered  of Palter
Paltering  of Palter
Palter  To haggle.
Palter  To act in insincere or deceitful manner; to play false; to equivocate; to shift; to dodge; to trifle.
Palter  To babble; to chatter.
Palter  To trifle with; to waste; to squander in paltry ways or on worthless things.
Palterer  One who palters.
Palterly  Paltry; shabby; shabbily; paltrily.
Paltock  A kind of doublet; a jacket.
Paltrily  In a paltry manner.
Paltriness  The state or quality of being paltry.
Paltry  Mean; vile; worthless; despicable; contemptible; pitiful; trifling; as, a paltry excuse; paltry gold.
Paludal  Of or pertaining to marshes or fens; marshy.
Paludament  See Paludamentum.
Paladumenta  of Paludamentum
Paludamentum  A military cloak worn by a general and his principal officers.
Paludicolae  A division of birds, including the cranes, rails, etc.
Paludicole  Marsh-inhabiting; belonging to the Paludicolae
Paludinae  of Paludina
Paludinas  of Paludina
Paludina  Any one of numerous species of freshwater pectinibranchiate mollusks, belonging to Paludina, Melantho, and allied genera. They have an operculated shell which is usually green, often with brown bands. See Illust. of Pond snail, under Pond.
Paludinal  Inhabiting ponds or swamps.
Paludine  Of or pertaining to a marsh.
Paludinous  Paludinal. (b) Like or pertaining to the genus Paludina.
Paludinous  Of or pertaining to a marsh or fen.
Paludism  The morbid phenomena produced by dwelling among marshes; malarial disease or disposition.
Paludose  Growing or living in marshy places; marshy.
Palule  See Palulus or Palus.
Paluli  of Palulus
Palulus  Same as Palus.
Pali  of Palus
Palus  One of several upright slender calcareous processes which surround the central part of the calicle of certain corals.
Palustral  Of or pertaining to a bog or marsh; boggy.
Palustrine  Of, pertaining to, or living in, a marsh or swamp; marshy.
Paly  Pale; wanting color; dim.
Paly  Divided into four or more equal parts by perpendicular lines, and of two different tinctures disposed alternately.
Pam  The knave of clubs.
Pament  A pavement.
Pampano  Same as Pompano.
Pampas  Vast plains in the central and southern part of the Argentine Republic in South America. The term is sometimes used in a wider sense for the plains extending from Bolivia to Southern Patagonia.
Pampered  of Pamper
Pampering  of Pamper
Pamper  To feed to the full; to feed luxuriously; to glut; as, to pamper the body or the appetite.
Pamper  To gratify inordinately; to indulge to excess; as, to pamper pride; to pamper the imagination.
Pampered  Fed luxuriously; indulged to the full; hence, luxuriant.
Pamperer  One who, or that which, pampers.
Pamperize  To pamper.
Pampero  A violent wind from the west or southwest, which sweeps over the pampas of South America and the adjacent seas, often doing great damage.
Pamperos  A tribe of Indians inhabiting the pampas of South America.
Pamphlet  A writing; a book.
Pamphlet  A small book consisting of a few sheets of printed paper, stitched together, often with a paper cover, but not bound; a short essay or written discussion, usually on a subject of current interest.
Pamphlet  To write a pamphlet or pamphlets.
Pamphleteer  A writer of pamphlets; a scribbler.
Pamphleteer  To write or publish pamphlets.
Pampiniform  In the form of tendrils; -- applied especially to the spermatic and ovarian veins.
Pampre  An ornament, composed of vine leaves and bunches of grapes, used for decorating spiral columns.
Pamprodactylous  Having all the toes turned forward, as the colies.
Pan-  Alt. of Panto-
Panta-  Alt. of Panto-
Panto-  Combining forms signifying all, every; as, panorama, pantheism, pantagraph, pantograph. Pan- becomes pam- before b or p, as pamprodactylous.
Pan  A part; a portion.
Pan  The distance comprised between the angle of the epaule and the flanked angle.
Pan  A leaf of gold or silver.
Pan  To join or fit together; to unite.
Pan  The betel leaf; also, the masticatory made of the betel leaf, etc. See /etel.
Pan  The god of shepherds, guardian of bees, and patron of fishing and hunting. He is usually represented as having the head and trunk of a man, with the legs, horns, and tail of a goat, and as playing on the shepherd's pipe, which he is said to have invented.
Pan  A shallow, open dish or vessel, usually of metal, employed for many domestic uses, as for setting milk for cream, for frying or baking food, etc.; also employed for various uses in manufacturing.
Pan  A closed vessel for boiling or evaporating. See Vacuum pan, under Vacuum.
Pan  The part of a flintlock which holds the priming.
Pan  The skull, considered as a vessel containing the brain; the upper part of the head; the brainpan; the cranium.
Pan  A recess, or bed, for the leaf of a hinge.
Pan  The hard stratum of earth that lies below the soil. See Hard pan, under Hard.
Pan  A natural basin, containing salt or fresh water, or mud.
Panned  of Pan
Panning  of Pan
Pan  To separate, as gold, from dirt or sand, by washing in a kind of pan.
Pan  To yield gold in, or as in, the process of panning; -- usually with out; as, the gravel panned out richly.
Pan  To turn out (profitably or unprofitably); to result; to develop; as, the investigation, or the speculation, panned out poorly.
Panabase  Same as Tetrahedrite.
Panacea  A remedy for all diseases; a universal medicine; a cure-all; catholicon; hence, a relief or solace for affliction.
Panacea  The herb allheal.
Panacean  Having the properties of a panacea.
Panache  A plume or bunch of feathers, esp. such a bunch worn on the helmet; any military plume, or ornamental group of feathers.
Panada  Alt. of Panade
Panade  Bread boiled in water to the consistence of pulp, and sweetened or flavored.
Panade  A dagger.
Panama  A fine plaited hat, made in Central America of the young leaves of a plant (Carludovica palmata).
Pan-American  Of or pertaining to both North and South America.
Pan-Anglican  Belonging to, or representing, the whole Church of England; used less strictly, to include the Protestant Episcopal Church of the United States; as, the Pan-Anglican Conference at Lambeth, in 1888.
Panary  Of or pertaining to bread or to breadmaking.
Panary  A storehouse for bread.
Pancake  A thin cake of batter fried in a pan or on a griddle; a griddlecake; a flapjack.
Pancarte  A royal charter confirming to a subject all his possessions.
Pance  The pansy.
Panch  See Paunch.
Panchway  A Bengalese four-oared boat for passengers.
Pancratian  Pancratic; athletic.
Pancratiast  One who engaged in the contests of the pancratium.
Pancratiastic  Of or pertaining to the pancratium.
Pancratic  Having all or many degrees of power; having a great range of power; -- said of an eyepiece made adjustable so as to give a varying magnifying power.
Pancratic  Alt. of Pancratical
Pancratical  Of or pertaining to the pancratium; athletic.
Pancratist  An athlete; a gymnast.
Pancratium  An athletic contest involving both boxing and wrestling.
Pancratium  A genus of Old World amaryllideous bulbous plants, having a funnel-shaped perianth with six narrow spreading lobes. The American species are now placed in the related genus Hymenocallis.
Pancreas  The sweetbread, a gland connected with the intestine of nearly all vertebrates. It is usually elongated and light-colored, and its secretion, called the pancreatic juice, is discharged, often together with the bile, into the upper part of the intestines, and is a powerful aid in digestion. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus.
Pancreatic  Of or pertaining to the pancreas; as, the pancreatic secretion, digestion, ferments.
Pancreatin  One of the digestive ferments of the pancreatic juice; also, a preparation containing such a ferment, made from the pancreas of animals, and used in medicine as an aid to digestion.
Pancy  See Pansy.
Panda  A small Asiatic mammal (Ailurus fulgens) having fine soft fur. It is related to the bears, and inhabits the mountains of Northern India.
Pandanus  A genus of endogenous plants. See Screw pine.
Pandar  Same as Pander.
Pandarism  Same as Panderism.
Pandarize  To pander.
Pandarous  Panderous.
Pandean  Of or relating to the god Pan.
Pandect  A treatise which comprehends the whole of any science.
Pandect  The digest, or abridgment, in fifty books, of the decisions, writings, and opinions of the old Roman jurists, made in the sixth century by direction of the emperor Justinian, and forming the leading compilation of the Roman civil law.
Pandemic  Affecting a whole people or a number of countries; everywhere epidemic.
Pandemic  A pandemic disease.
Pandemonium  The great hall or council chamber of demons or evil spirits.
Pandemonium  An utterly lawless, riotous place or assemblage.
Pander  A male bawd; a pimp; a procurer.
Pander  Hence, one who ministers to the evil designs and passions of another.
Pandered  of Pander
Pandering  of Pander
Pander  To play the pander for.
Pander  To act the part of a pander.
Panderage  The act of pandering.
Panderism  The employment, arts, or practices of a pander.
Panderly  Having the quality of a pander.
Pandermite  A hydrous borate of lime, near priceite.
Panderous  Of or relating to a pander; characterizing a pander.
Pandiculated  Extended; spread out; stretched.
Pandiculation  A stretching and stiffening of the trunk and extremities, as when fatigued and drowsy.
Pandit  See Pundit.
Pandoor  Same as Pandour.
Pandora  A beautiful woman (all-gifted), whom Jupiter caused Vulcan to make out of clay in order to punish the human race, because Prometheus had stolen the fire from heaven. Jupiter gave Pandora a box containing all human ills, which, when the box was opened, escaped and spread over the earth. Hope alone remained in the box. Another version makes the box contain all the blessings of the gods, which were lost to men when Pandora opened it.
Pandora  A genus of marine bivalves, in which one valve is flat, the other convex.
Pandore  An ancient musical instrument, of the lute kind; a bandore.
Pandour  One of a class of Hungarian mountaineers serving in the Austrian army; -- so called from Pandur, a principal town in the region from which they originally came.
Pandowdy  A deep pie or pudding made of baked apples, or of sliced bread and apples baked together, with no bottom crust.
Pandurate  Alt. of Panduriform
Panduriform  Obovate, with a concavity in each side, like the body of a violin; fiddle-shaped; as, a panduriform leaf; panduriform color markings of an animal.
Pane  The narrow edge of a hammer head. See Peen.
Pane  A division; a distinct piece, limited part, or compartment of any surface; a patch; hence, a square of a checkered or plaided pattern.
Pane  One of the openings in a slashed garment, showing the bright colored silk, or the like, within; hence, the piece of colored or other stuff so shown.
Pane  A compartment of a surface, or a flat space; hence, one side or face of a building; as, an octagonal tower is said to have eight panes.
Pane  Especially, in modern use, the glass in one compartment of a window sash.
Pane  In irrigating, a subdivision of an irrigated surface between a feeder and an outlet drain.
Pane  One of the flat surfaces, or facets, of any object having several sides.
Pane  One of the eight facets surrounding the table of a brilliant cut diamond.
Paned  Having panes; provided with panes; also, having openings; as, a paned window; paned window sash.
Paned  Having flat sides or surfaces; as, a six/paned nut.
Panegyric  An oration or eulogy in praise of some person or achievement; a formal or elaborate encomium; a laudatory discourse; laudation. See Synonym of Eulogy.
Panegyric  Alt. of Panegyrical
Panegyrical  Containing praise or eulogy; encomiastic; laudatory.
Panegyris  A festival; a public assembly.
Panegyrist  One who delivers a panegyric; a eulogist; one who extols or praises, either by writing or speaking.
Panegyrized  of Panegyrize
Panegyrizing  of Panegyrize
Panegyrize  To praise highly; to extol in a public speech; to write or deliver a panegyric upon; to eulogize.
Panegyrize  To indulge in panegyrics.
Panegyry  A panegyric.
Panel  A sunken compartment with raised margins, molded or otherwise, as in ceilings, wainscotings, etc.
Panel  A piece of parchment or a schedule, containing the names of persons summoned as jurors by the sheriff; hence, more generally, the whole jury.
Panel  A prisoner arraigned for trial at the bar of a criminal court.
Panel  Formerly, a piece of cloth serving as a saddle; hence, a soft pad beneath a saddletree to prevent chafing.
Panel  A board having its edges inserted in the groove of a surrounding frame; as, the panel of a door.
Panel  One of the faces of a hewn stone.
Panel  A slab or plank of wood upon which, instead of canvas, a picture is painted.
Panel  A heap of dressed ore.
Panel  One of the districts divided by pillars of extra size, into which a mine is laid off in one system of extracting coal.
Panel  A plain strip or band, as of velvet or plush, placed at intervals lengthwise on the skirt of a dress, for ornament.
Panel  A portion of a framed structure between adjacent posts or struts, as in a bridge truss.
Paneled  of Panel
Panelled  of Panel
Paneling  of Panel
Panelling  of Panel
Panel  To form in or with panels; as, to panel a wainscot.
Panelation  The act of impaneling a jury.
Paneless  Without panes.
Paneling  A forming in panels; panelwork.
Panelwork  Wainscoting.
Paneulogism  Eulogy of everything; indiscriminate praise.
Panfuls  of Panful
Panful  Enough to fill a pan.
Pang  A paroxysm of extreme pain or anguish; a sudden and transitory agony; a throe; as, the pangs of death.
Pang  To torture; to cause to have great pain or suffering; to torment.
Pangenesis  An hypothesis advanced by Darwin in explanation of heredity.
Pangenetic  Of or pertaining to pangenesis.
Pangful  Full of pangs.
Pangless  Without a pang; painless.
Pangolin  Any one of several species of Manis, Pholidotus, and related genera, found in Africa and Asia. They are covered with imbricated scales, and feed upon ants. Called also scaly ant-eater.
Pangothic  Of, pertaining to, or including, all the Gothic races.
Panhellenic  Of or pertaining to all Greece, or to Panhellenism; including all Greece, or all the Greeks.
Panhellenism  A scheme to unite all the Greeks in one political body.
Panhellenist  An advocate of Panhellenism.
Panhellenium  An assembly or association of Greeks from all the states of Greece.
Panic  A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass; also, the edible grain of some species of panic grass.
Panic  Extreme or sudden and causeless; unreasonable; -- said of fear or fright; as, panic fear, terror, alarm.
Panic  A sudden, overpowering fright; esp., a sudden and groundless fright; terror inspired by a trifling cause or a misapprehension of danger; as, the troops were seized with a panic; they fled in a panic.
Panic  By extension: A sudden widespread fright or apprehension concerning financial affairs.
Panical  See Panic, a.
Panicle  A pyramidal form of inflorescence, in which the cluster is loosely branched below and gradually simpler toward the end.
Panicled  Furnished with panicles; arranged in, or like, panicles; paniculate.
Panic-stricken  Alt. of Panic-struck
Panic-struck  Struck with a panic, or sudden fear.
Paniculate  Alt. of Paniculated
Paniculated  Same as Panicled.
Panicum  A genus of grasses, including several hundred species, some of which are valuable; panic grass.
Panidiomorphic  Having a completely idiomorphic structure; -- said of certain rocks.
Panier  See Pannier, 3.
Panification  The act or process of making bread.
Panim  See Painim.
Panislamism  A desire or plan for the union of all Mohammedan nations for the conquest of the world.
Panivorous  Eating bread; subsisting on bread.
Pannade  The curvet of a horse.
Pannage  The food of swine in the woods, as beechnuts, acorns, etc.; -- called also pawns.
Pannage  A tax paid for the privilege of feeding swine in the woods.
Pannary  See Panary.
Pannel  A kind of rustic saddle.
Pannel  The stomach of a hawk.
Pannel  A carriage for conveying a mortar and its bed, on a march.
Pannier  A bread basket; also, a wicker basket (used commonly in pairs) for carrying fruit or other things on a horse or an ass
Pannier  A shield of basket work formerly used by archers as a shelter from the enemy's missiles.
Pannier  A table waiter at the Inns of Court, London.
Pannier  A framework of steel or whalebone, worn by women to expand their dresses; a kind of bustle.
Panniered  Bearing panniers.
Pannikel  The brainpan, or skull; hence, the crest.
Pannikin  A small pan or cup.
Pannose  Similar in texture or appearance to felt or woolen cloth.
Pannus  A very vascular superficial opacity of the cornea, usually caused by granulation of the eyelids.
Panoistic  Producing ova only; -- said of the ovaries of certain insects which do not produce vitelligenous cells.
Panomphean  Uttering ominous or prophetic voices; divining.
Panoplied  Dressed in panoply.
Panoply  Defensive armor in general; a full suit of defensive armor.
Panopticon  A prison so contructed that the inspector can see each of the prisoners at all times, without being seen.
Panopticon  A room for the exhibition of novelties.
Panorama  A complete view in every direction.
Panorama  A picture presenting a view of objects in every direction, as from a central point.
Panorama  A picture representing scenes too extended to be beheld at once, and so exhibited a part at a time, by being unrolled, and made to pass continuously before the spectator.
Panoramic  Alt. of Panoramical
Panoramical  Of, pertaining to, or like, a panorama.
Panorpian  Like, or pertaining to, the genus Panorpa.
Panorpian  Same as Panorpid.
Panorpid  Any neuropterous insect of the genus Panorpa, and allied genera. The larvae feed on plant lice.
Panpharmacon  A medicine for all diseases; a panacea.
Panpresbyterian  Belonging to, or representative of, those who hold Presbyterian views in all parts of the world; as, a Panpresbyterian council.
Pansclavic  Alt. of Pansclavonian
Pansclavism  Alt. of Pansclavonian
Pansclavist  Alt. of Pansclavonian
Pansclavonian  See Panslavic, Panslavism, etc.
Panshon  An earthen vessel wider at the top than at the bottom, -- used for holding milk and for various other purposes.
Pansied  Covered or adorned with pansies.
Panslavic  Pertaining to all the Slavic races.
Panslavism  A scheme or desire to unite all the Slavic races into one confederacy.
Panslavist  One who favors Panslavism.
Panslavonian  See Panslavic.
Pansophical  All-wise; claiming universal knowledge; as, pansophical pretenders.
Pansophy  Universal wisdom; esp., a system of universal knowledge proposed by Comenius (1592 -- 1671), a Moravian educator.
Panspermatist  Alt. of Panspermist
Panspermist  A believer in panspermy; one who rejects the theory of spontaneous generation; a biogenist.
Panspermic  Of or pertaining to panspermy; as, the panspermic hypothesis.
Panspermy  The doctrine of the widespread distribution of germs, from which under favorable circumstances bacteria, vibrios, etc., may develop.
Panspermy  The doctrine that all organisms must come from living parents; biogenesis; -- the opposite of spontaneous generation.
Panstereorama  A model of a town or country, in relief, executed in wood, cork, pasteboard, or the like.
Pansies  of Pansy
Pansy  A plant of the genus Viola (V. tricolor) and its blossom, originally purple and yellow. Cultivated varieties have very large flowers of a great diversity of colors. Called also heart's-ease, love-in-idleness, and many other quaint names.
Panted  of Pant
Panting  of Pant
Pant  To breathe quickly or in a labored manner, as after exertion or from eagerness or excitement; to respire with heaving of the breast; to gasp.
Pant  Hence: To long eagerly; to desire earnestly.
Pant  To beat with unnatural violence or rapidity; to palpitate, or throb; -- said of the heart.
Pant  To sigh; to flutter; to languish.
Pant  To breathe forth quickly or in a labored manner; to gasp out.
Pant  To long for; to be eager after.
Quarte  A position in thrusting or parrying, with the inside of the hand turned upward and the point of the weapon toward the adversary's right breast.
Qraspine  of Grasp
Qua  In so far as; in the capacity or character of; as.
Quab  An unfledged bird; hence, something immature or unfinished.
Quab  See Quob, v. i.
Qua-bird  The American night heron. See under Night.
Quacha  The quagga.
Qvacked  of Quack
Quacking  of Quack
Quack  To utter a sound like the cry of a duck.
Quack  To make vain and loud pretensions; to boast.
Quack  To act the part of a quack, or pretender.
Quack  The cry of the duck, or a sound in imitation of it; a hoarse, quacking noise.
Quack  A boastful pretender to medical skill; an empiric; an ignorant practitioner.
Quack  Hence, one who boastfully pretends to skill or knowledge of any kind not possessed; a charlatan.
Quack  Pertaining to or characterized by, boasting and pretension; used by quacks; pretending to cure diseases; as, a quack medicine; a quack doctor.
Quackeries  of Quackery
Quackery  The acts, arts, or boastful pretensions of a quack; false pretensions to any art; empiricism.
Quack  See Quitch grass.
Quackish  Like a quack; boasting; characterized by quackery.
Quackism  Quackery.
Quackled  of Quackle
Quackling  of Quackle
Quackle  To suffocate; to choke.
Quacksalver  One who boasts of his skill in medicines and salves, or of the efficacy of his prescriptions; a charlatan; a quack; a mountebank.
Quad  Alt. of Quade
Quade  Evil; bad; baffling; as, a quade wind.
Quad  A quadrat.
Quad  A quadrangle; hence, a prison.
Quadrae  of Quadra
Quadra  The plinth, or lowest member, of any pedestal, podium, water table, or the like.
Quadra  A fillet, or listel.
Quadrable  That may be sqyared, or reduced to an equivalent square; -- said of a surface when the area limited by a curve can be exactly found, and expressed in a finite number of algebraic terms.
Quadragenarious  Consisting of forty; forty years old.
Quadragene  An indulgence of forty days, corresponding to the forty days of ancient canonical penance.
Quadragesima  The forty days of fast preceding Easter; Lent.
Quadragesimal  Belonging to Lent; used in Lent; Lenten.
Quadragesimals  Offerings formerly made to the mother church of a diocese on Mid-Lent Sunday.
Quadrangle  A plane figure having four angles, and consequently four sides; any figure having four angles.
Quadrangle  A square or quadrangular space or inclosure, such a space or court surrounded by buildings, esp. such a court in a college or public school in England.
Quadrangular  Having four angles, and consequently four sides; tetragonal.
Quadrantes  of Quadrans
Quadrans  A fourth part of the coin called an as. See 3d As, 2.
Quadrans  The fourth of a penny; a farthing. See Cur.
Quadrant  The fourth part; the quarter.
Quadrant  The quarter of a circle, or of the circumference of a circle, an arc of 90, or one subtending a right angle at the center.
Quadrant  One of the four parts into which a plane is divided by the coordinate axes. The upper right-hand part is the first quadrant; the upper left-hand part the second; the lower left-hand part the third; and the lower right-hand part the fourth quadrant.
Quadrant  An instrument for measuring altitudes, variously constructed and mounted for different specific uses in astronomy, surveying, gunnery, etc., consisting commonly of a graduated arc of 90, with an index or vernier, and either plain or telescopic sights, and usually having a plumb line or spirit level for fixing the vertical or horizontal direction.
Quadrantal  Of or pertaining to a quadrant; also, included in the fourth part of a circle; as, quadrantal space.
Quadrantal  A cubical vessel containing a Roman cubic foot, each side being a Roman square foot; -- used as a measure.
Quadrantal  A cube.
Quadrat  A block of type metal lower than the letters, -- used in spacing and in blank lines.
Quadrat  An old instrument used for taking altitudes; -- called also geometrical square, and line of shadows.
Quadrate  Having four equal sides, the opposite sides parallel, and four right angles; square.
Quadrate  Produced by multiplying a number by itself; square.
Quadrate  Square; even; balanced; equal; exact.
Quadrate  Squared; suited; correspondent.
Quadrate  A plane surface with four equal sides and four right angles; a square; hence, figuratively, anything having the outline of a square.
Quadrate  An aspect of the heavenly bodies in which they are distant from each other 90, or the quarter of a circle; quartile. See the Note under Aspect, 6.
Quadrate  The quadrate bone.
Quadrated  of Quadrate
Quadrating  of Quadrate
Quadrate  To square; to agree; to suit; to correspond; -- followed by with.
Quadrate  To adjust (a gun) on its carriage; also, to train (a gun) for horizontal firing.
Quadratic  Of or pertaining to a square, or to squares; resembling a quadrate, or square; square.
Quadratic  Tetragonal.
Quadratic  Pertaining to terms of the second degree; as, a quadratic equation, in which the highest power of the unknown quantity is a square.
Quadratics  That branch of algebra which treats of quadratic equations.
Quadratojugal  Of or pertaining to the quadrate and jugal bones.
Quadratojugal  Of or pertaining to the quadratojugal bone.
Quadratojugal  The quadratojugal bone.
Quadratrix  A curve made use of in the quadrature of other curves; as the quadratrix, of Dinostratus, or of Tschirnhausen.
Quadrature  The act of squaring; the finding of a square having the same area as some given curvilinear figure; as, the quadrature of a circle; the operation of finding an expression for the area of a figure bounded wholly or in part by a curved line, as by a curve, two ordinates, and the axis of abscissas.
Quadrature  A quadrate; a square.
Quadrature  The integral used in obtaining the area bounded by a curve; hence, the definite integral of the product of any function of one variable into the differential of that variable.
Quadrature  The position of one heavenly body in respect to another when distant from it 90, or a quarter of a circle, as the moon when at an equal distance from the points of conjunction and opposition.
Quadrel  A square piece of turf or peat.
Quadrel  A square brick, tile, or the like.
Quadrennial  Comprising four years; as, a quadrennial period.
Quadrennial  Occurring once in four years, or at the end of every four years; as, quadrennial games.
Quadrennially  Once in four years.
Quadrennium  A space or period of four years.
Quadri-  A combining form meaning four, four times, fourfold; as, quadricapsular, having four capsules.
Quadribasic  Same as Tetrabasic.
Quadrible  Quadrable.
Quadric  Of or pertaining to the second degree.
Quadric  A quantic of the second degree. See Quantic.
Quadric  A surface whose equation in three variables is of the second degree. Spheres, spheroids, ellipsoids, paraboloids, hyperboloids, also cones and cylinders with circular bases, are quadrics.
Quadricapsular  Having four capsules.
Quadriceps  The great extensor muscle of the knee, divided above into four parts which unite in a single tendon at the knee.
Quadricipital  Of or pertaining to the quadriceps.
Quadricorn  Any quadricornous animal.
Quadricornous  Having four horns, or hornlike organs; as, a quadricornous beetle.
Quadricostate  Having four ribs.
Quadridentate  Having four teeth; as, a quadridentate leaf.
Quadriennial  Same as Quadrennial.
Quadrifarious  Arranged in four rows or ranks; as, quadrifarious leaves.
Quadrifid  Divided, or deeply cleft, into four parts; as, a quadrifid perianth; a quadrifid leaf.
Quadrifoil  Alt. of Quadrifoliate
Quadrifoliate  Four-leaved; having the leaves in whorls of four.
Quadrifurcated  Having four forks, or branches.
Quadrigae  of Quadriga
Quadriga  A car or chariot drawn by four horses abreast.
Quadrigeminal  Alt. of Quadrigeminous
Quadrigeminous  Fourfold; having four similar parts, or two pairs of similar parts.
Quadrigenarious  Consisting of four hundred.
Quadrijugate  Same as Quadrijugous.
Quadrijugous  Pinnate, with four pairs of leaflets; as, a quadrijugous leaf.
Quadrilateral  Having four sides, and consequently four angles; quadrangular.
Quadrilateral  A plane figure having four sides, and consequently four angles; a quadrangular figure; any figure formed by four lines.
Quadrilateral  An area defended by four fortresses supporting each other; as, the Venetian quadrilateral, comprising Mantua, Peschiera, Verona, and Legnano.
Quadrilateralness  The property of being quadrilateral.
Quadriliteral  Consisting of four letters.
Quadrille  A dance having five figures, in common time, four couples of dancers being in each set.
Quadrille  The appropriate music for a quadrille.
Quadrille  A game played by four persons with forty cards, being the remainder of an ordinary pack after the tens, nines, and eights are discarded.
Quadrillion  According to the French notation, which is followed also upon the Continent and in the United States, a unit with fifteen ciphers annexed; according to the English notation, the number produced by involving a million to the fourth power, or the number represented by a unit with twenty-four ciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration.
Quadrilobate  Alt. of Quadrilobed
Quadrilobed  Having four lobes; as, a quadrilobate leaf.
Quadrilocular  Having four cells, or cavities; as, a quadrilocular heart.
Quadrin  A small piece of money, in value about a farthing, or a half cent.
Quadrinodal  Possessing four nodes; as, quadrinodal curves.
Quadrinomial  A polynomial of four terms connected by the signs plus or minus.
Quadrinomical  Quadrinomial.
Quadrinominal  Quadrinomial.
Quadripartite  Divided into four parts.
Quadripartitely  In four parts.
Quadripartition  A division or distribution by four, or into four parts; also, a taking the fourth part of any quantity or number.
Quadripennate  Having four wings; -- said of insects.
Quadriphyllous  Having four leaves; quadrifoliate.
Quadrireme  A galley with four banks of oars or rowers.
Quadrisection  A subdivision into four parts.
Quadrisulcate  Having four hoofs; as, a quadrisulcate foot; a quadrisulcate animal.
Quadrisyllabic  Alt. of Quadri-syllabical
Quadri-syllabical  Having four syllables; of or pertaining to quadrisyllables; as, a quadrisyllabic word.
Quadrisyllable  A word consisting of four syllables.
Quadrivalence  The quality or state of being quadrivalent; tetravalence.
Quadrivalent  Having a valence of four; capable of combining with, being replaced by, or compared with, four monad atoms; tetravalent; -- said of certain atoms and radicals; thus, carbon and silicon are quadrivalent elements.
Quadrivalve  Dehiscent into four similar parts; four-valved; as, a quadrivalve pericarp.
Quadrivalve  A door, shutter, or the like, having four folds.
Quadrivalvular  Having four valves; quadrivalve.
Quadrivial  Having four ways meeting in a point.
Quadrivial  One of the four "liberal arts" making up the quadrivium.
Quadrivium  The four "liberal arts," arithmetic, music, geometry, and astronomy; -- so called by the schoolmen. See Trivium.
Quadroon  The offspring of a mulatto and a white person; a person quarter-blooded.
Quadroxide  A tetroxide.
Quadrumana  A division of the Primates comprising the apes and monkeys; -- so called because the hind foot is usually prehensile, and the great toe opposable somewhat like a thumb. Formerly the Quadrumana were considered an order distinct from the Bimana, which last included man alone.
Quadrumane  One of the Quadrumana.
Quadrumanous  Having four hands; of or pertaining to the Quadrumana.
Quadruped  Having four feet.
Quadruped  An animal having four feet, as most mammals and reptiles; -- often restricted to the mammals.
Quadrupedal  Having four feet; of or pertaining to a quadruped.
Quadruple  Fourfold; as, to make quadruple restitution; a quadruple alliance.
Quadruple  four times the sum or number; a fourfold amount; as, to receive to quadruple of the amount in damages.
Quadrupled  of Quadruple
Quadrupling  of Quadruple
Quadruple  To multiply by four; to increase fourfold; to double; to double twice.
Quadruple  To be multiplied by four; to increase fourfold; to become four times as much.
Quadruplex  Fourfold; folded or doubled twice.
Quadruplicated  of Quadruplicate
Quadruplicating  of Quadruplicate
Quadruplicate  To make fourfold; to double twice; to quadruple.
Quadruplicate  Fourfold; doubled twice; four times repeated; as, a quadruplicate ratio, or a quadruplicate proportion.
Quadruplicate  Raised to the fourth power.
Quadruplication  The act of making fourfold; a taking four times the simple sum or amount.
Quadruply  To a fourfold quantity; so as to be, or cause to be, quadruple; as, to be quadruply recompensed.
Quaere  Inquire; question; see; -- used to signify doubt or to suggest investigation.
Quaestor  Same as Questor.
Quaffed  of Quaff
Quaffing  of Quaff
Quaff  To drink with relish; to drink copiously of; to swallow in large draughts.
Quaff  To drink largely or luxuriously.
Quaffer  One who quaffs, or drinks largely.
Quag  A quagmire.
Quagga  A South African wild ass (Equus, / Hippotigris, quagga). The upper parts are reddish brown, becoming paler behind and behind and beneath, with dark stripes on the face, neck, and fore part of the body.
Quaggy  Of the nature of a quagmire; yielding or trembling under the foot, as soft, wet earth; spongy; boggy.
Quagmire  Soft, wet, miry land, which shakes or yields under the feet.
Quahog  Alt. of Quahaug
Quahaug  An American market clam (Venus mercenaria). It is sold in large quantities, and is highly valued as food. Called also round clam, and hard clam.
Quaigh  Alt. of Quaich
Quaich  A small shallow cup or drinking vessel.
Qualled  of Quail
Qualling  of Quail
Quail  To die; to perish; hence, to wither; to fade.
Quail  To become quelled; to become cast down; to sink under trial or apprehension of danger; to lose the spirit and power of resistance; to lose heart; to give way; to shrink; to cower.
Quail  To cause to fail in spirit or power; to quell; to crush; to subdue.
Quail  To curdle; to coagulate, as milk.
Quail  Any gallinaceous bird belonging to Coturnix and several allied genera of the Old World, especially the common European quail (C. communis), the rain quail (C. Coromandelica) of India, the stubble quail (C. pectoralis), and the Australian swamp quail (Synoicus australis).
Quail  Any one of several American partridges belonging to Colinus, Callipepla, and allied genera, especially the bobwhite (called Virginia quail, and Maryland quail), and the California quail (Calipepla Californica).
Quail  Any one of numerous species of Turnix and allied genera, native of the Old World, as the Australian painted quail (Turnix varius). See Turnix.
Quail  A prostitute; -- so called because the quail was thought to be a very amorous bird.
Quaily  The upland plover.
Quaint  Prudent; wise; hence, crafty; artful; wily.
Quaint  Characterized by ingenuity or art; finely fashioned; skillfully wrought; elegant; graceful; nice; neat.
Quaint  Curious and fanciful; affected; odd; whimsical; antique; archaic; singular; unusual; as, quaint architecture; a quaint expression.
Quaintise  Craft; subtlety; cunning.
Quaintise  Elegance; beauty.
Quaintly  In a quaint manner.
Quaintness  The quality of being quaint.
Quair  A quire; a book.
Quaked  of Quake
Quaking  of Quake
Quake  To be agitated with quick, short motions continually repeated; to shake with fear, cold, etc.; to shudder; to tremble.
Quake  To shake, vibrate, or quiver, either from not being solid, as soft, wet land, or from violent convulsion of any kind; as, the earth quakes; the mountains quake.
Quake  To cause to quake.
Quake  A tremulous agitation; a quick vibratory movement; a shudder; a quivering.
Quaker  One who quakes.
Quaker  One of a religious sect founded by George Fox, of Leicestershire, England, about 1650, -- the members of which call themselves Friends. They were called Quakers, originally, in derision. See Friend, n., 4.
Quaker  The nankeen bird.
Quaker  The sooty albatross.
Quaker  Any grasshopper or locust of the genus (Edipoda; -- so called from the quaking noise made during flight.
Quakeress  A woman who is a member of the Society of Friends.
Quakerish  Like or pertaining to a Quaker; Quakerlike.
Quakerism  The peculiar character, manners, tenets, etc., of the Quakers.
Quakerlike  Like a Quaker.
Quakerly  Resembling Quakers; Quakerlike; Quakerish.
Quakery  Quakerism.
Quaketail  A wagtail.
Quakness  The state of being quaky; liability to quake.
Quaking  a. & n. from Quake, v.
Quakingly  In a quaking manner; fearfully.
Quaky  Shaky, or tremulous; quaking.
Qualifiable  Capable of being qualified; abatable; modifiable.
Qualification  The act of qualifying, or the condition of being qualified.
Qualification  That which qualifies; any natural endowment, or any acquirement, which fits a person for a place, office, or employment, or which enables him to sustian any character with success; an enabling quality or circumstance; requisite capacity or possession.
Qualification  The act of limiting, or the state of being limited; that which qualifies by limiting; modification; restriction; hence, abatement; diminution; as, to use words without any qualification.
Qualificative  That which qualifies, modifies, or restricts; a qualifying term or statement.
Qualificator  An officer whose business it is to examine and prepare causes for trial in the ecclesiastical courts.
Qualified  Fitted by accomplishments or endowments.
Qualified  Modified; limited; as, a qualified statement.
Qualifiedly  In the way of qualification; with modification or qualification.
Qualifiedness  The state of being qualified.
Qualifier  One who, or that which, qualifies; that which modifies, reduces, tempers or restrains.
Qualified  of Qualify
Qualifying  of Qualify
Qualify  To make such as is required; to give added or requisite qualities to; to fit, as for a place, office, occupation, or character; to furnish with the knowledge, skill, or other accomplishment necessary for a purpose; to make capable, as of an employment or privilege; to supply with legal power or capacity.
Qualify  To give individual quality to; to modulate; to vary; to regulate.
Qualify  To reduce from a general, undefined, or comprehensive form, to particular or restricted form; to modify; to limit; to restrict; to restrain; as, to qualify a statement, claim, or proposition.
Qualify  Hence, to soften; to abate; to diminish; to assuage; to reduce the strength of, as liquors.
Qualify  To soothe; to cure; -- said of persons.
Qualify  To be or become qualified; to be fit, as for an office or employment.
Qualify  To obtain legal power or capacity by taking the oath, or complying with the forms required, on assuming an office.
Qualitative  Relating to quality; having the character of quality.
Qualitied  Furnished with qualities; endowed.
Qualities  of Quality
Quality  The condition of being of such and such a sort as distinguished from others; nature or character relatively considered, as of goods; character; sort; rank.
Quality  Special or temporary character; profession; occupation; assumed or asserted rank, part, or position.
Quality  That which makes, or helps to make, anything such as it is; anything belonging to a subject, or predicable of it; distinguishing property, characteristic, or attribute; peculiar power, capacity, or virtue; distinctive trait; as, the tones of a flute differ from those of a violin in quality; the great quality of a statesman.
Quality  An acquired trait; accomplishment; acquisition.
Quality  Superior birth or station; high rank; elevated character.
Qualm  Sickness; disease; pestilence; death.
Qualm  A sudden attack of illness, faintness, or pain; an agony.
Qualm  Especially, a sudden sensation of nausea.
Qualm  A prick or scruple of conscience; uneasiness of conscience; compunction.
Qualmish  Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea or sickly languor; inclined to vomit.
Quamash  See Camass.
Quamoclit  Formerly, a genus of plants including the cypress vine (Quamoclit vulgaris, now called Ipomoea Quamoclit). The genus is now merged in Ipomoea.
Quandaries  of Quandary
Quandary  A state of difficulty or perplexity; doubt; uncertainty.
Quandary  To bring into a state of uncertainty, perplexity, or difficulty.
Quandong  The edible drupaceous fruit of an Australian tree (Fusanus acuminatus) of the Sandalwood family; -- called also quandang.
Quandy  The old squaw.
Quannet  A flat file having the handle at one side, so as to be used like a plane.
Quant  A punting pole with a broad flange near the end to prevent it from sinking into the mud; a setting pole.
Quantic  A homogeneous algebraic function of two or more variables, in general containing only positive integral powers of the variables, and called quadric, cubic, quartic, etc., according as it is of the second, third, fourth, fifth, or a higher degree. These are further called binary, ternary, quaternary, etc., according as they contain two, three, four, or more variables; thus, the quantic / is a binary cubic.
Quantification  Modification by a reference to quantity; the introduction of the element of quantity.
Quantity  To modify or qualify with respect to quantity; to fix or express the quantity of; to rate.
Quantitative  Relating to quantity.
Quantitive  Estimable according to quantity; quantitative.
Quantitively  So as to be measurable by quantity; quantitatively.
Quantities  of Quantity
Quantity  The attribute of being so much, and not more or less; the property of being measurable, or capable of increase and decrease, multiplication and division; greatness; and more concretely, that which answers the question "How much?"; measure in regard to bulk or amount; determinate or comparative dimensions; measure; amount; bulk; extent; size.
Quantity  The extent or extension of a general conception, that is, the number of species or individuals to which it may be applied; also, its content or comprehension, that is, the number of its constituent qualities, attributes, or relations.
Quantity  The measure of a syllable; that which determines the time in which it is pronounced; as, the long or short quantity of a vowel or syllable.
Quantity  The relative duration of a tone.
Quantity  That which can be increased, diminished, or measured; especially (Math.), anything to which mathematical processes are applicable.
Quantity  A determinate or estimated amount; a sum or bulk; a certain portion or part; sometimes, a considerable amount; a large portion, bulk, or sum; as, a medicine taken in quantities, that is, in large quantities.
Quantivalence  Valence.
Quantivalent  Of or pertaining to quantivalence.
Quanta  of Quantum
Quantum  Quantity; amount.
Quantum  A definite portion of a manifoldness, limited by a mark or by a boundary.
Quap  To quaver.
Quaquaversal  Turning or dipping in any or every direction.
Quaquaversal  Dipping toward all points of the compass round a center, as beds of lava round a crater.
Quar  A quarry.
Quarantine  A space of forty days; -- used of Lent.
Quarantine  Specifically, the term, originally of forty days, during which a ship arriving in port, and suspected of being infected a malignant contagious disease, is obliged to forbear all intercourse with the shore; hence, such restraint or inhibition of intercourse; also, the place where infected or prohibited vessels are stationed.
Quarantine  The period of forty days during which the widow had the privilege of remaining in the mansion house of which her husband died seized.
Quarantined  of Quarantine
Quarantining  of Quarantine
Quarantine  To compel to remain at a distance, or in a given place, without intercourse, when suspected of having contagious disease; to put under, or in, quarantine.
Quarl  A medusa, or jellyfish.
Quarrel  An arrow for a crossbow; -- so named because it commonly had a square head.
Quarrel  Any small square or quadrangular member
Quarrel  A square of glass, esp. when set diagonally.
Quarrel  A small opening in window tracery, of which the cusps, etc., make the form nearly square.
Quarrel  A square or lozenge-shaped paving tile.
Quarrel  A glazier's diamond.
Quarrel  A four-sided cutting tool or chisel having a diamond-shaped end.
Quarrel  A breach of concord, amity, or obligation; a falling out; a difference; a disagreement; an antagonism in opinion, feeling, or conduct; esp., an angry dispute, contest, or strife; a brawl; an altercation; as, he had a quarrel with his father about expenses.
Quarrel  Ground of objection, dislike, difference, or hostility; cause of dispute or contest; occasion of altercation.
Quarrel  Earnest desire or longing.
Quarreled  of Quarrel
Quarrelled  of Quarrel
Quarreling  of Quarrel
Quarrelling  of Quarrel
Quarrel  To violate concord or agreement; to have a difference; to fall out; to be or become antagonistic.
Quarrel  To dispute angrily, or violently; to wrangle; to scold; to altercate; to contend; to fight.
Quarrel  To find fault; to cavil; as, to quarrel with one's lot.
Quarrel  To quarrel with.
Quarrel  To compel by a quarrel; as, to quarrel a man out of his estate or rights.
Quarrel  One who quarrels or wrangles; one who is quarrelsome.
Quarrelet  A little quarrel. See 1st Quarrel, 2.
Quarreling  Engaged in a quarrel; apt or disposed to quarrel; as, quarreling factions; a quarreling mood.
Quarrellous  Quarrelsome.
Quarrelsome  Apt or disposed to quarrel; given to brawls and contention; easily irritated or provoked to contest; irascible; choleric.
Quarried  Provided with prey.
Quarrier  A worker in a stone quarry.
Quarry  Same as 1st Quarrel.
Quarry  Quadrate; square.
Quarries  of Quarry
Quarry  A part of the entrails of the beast taken, given to the hounds.
Quarry  A heap of game killed.
Quarry  The object of the chase; the animal hunted for; game; especially, the game hunted with hawks.
Quarry  To secure prey; to prey, as a vulture or harpy.
Quarry  A place, cavern, or pit where stone is taken from the rock or ledge, or dug from the earth, for building or other purposes; a stone pit. See 5th Mine (a).
Quarried  of Quarry
Quarrying  of Quarry
Quarry  To dig or take from a quarry; as, to quarry marble.
Quarry-faced  Having a face left as it comes from the quarry and not smoothed with the chisel or point; -- said of stones.
Quarrymen  of Quarry-man
Quarry-man  A man who is engaged in quarrying stones; a quarrier.
Quart  The fourth part; a quarter; hence, a region of the earth.
Quart  A measure of capacity, both in dry and in liquid measure; the fourth part of a gallon; the eighth part of a peck; two pints.
Quart  A vessel or measure containing a quart.
Quart  In cards, four successive cards of the same suit. Cf. Tierce, 4.
Quartan  Of or pertaining to the fourth; occurring every fourth day, reckoning inclusively; as, a quartan ague, or fever.
Quartan  An intermittent fever which returns every fourth day, reckoning inclusively, that is, one in which the interval between paroxysms is two days.
Quartan  A measure, the fourth part of some other measure.
Quartane  Butane, each molecule of which has four carbon atoms.
Quartation  The act, process, or result (in the process of parting) of alloying a button of nearly pure gold with enough silver to reduce the fineness so as to allow acids to attack and remove all metals except the gold; -- called also inquartation. Compare Parting.
Quarte  Same as 2d Carte.
Quartene  Same as Butylene.
Quartenylic  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acrylic acid series, metameric with crotonic acid, and obtained as a colorless liquid; -- so called from having four carbon atoms in the molecule. Called also isocrotonic acid.
Quarter  One of four equal parts into which anything is divided, or is regarded as divided; a fourth part or portion; as, a quarter of a dollar, of a pound, of a yard, of an hour, etc.
Quarter  The fourth of a hundred-weight, being 25 or 28 pounds, according as the hundredweight is reckoned at 100 or 112 pounds.
Quarter  The fourth of a ton in weight, or eight bushels of grain; as, a quarter of wheat; also, the fourth part of a chaldron of coal.
Quarter  The fourth part of the moon's period, or monthly revolution; as, the first quarter after the change or full.
Quarter  One limb of a quadruped with the adjacent parts; one fourth part of the carcass of a slaughtered animal, including a leg; as, the fore quarters; the hind quarters.
Quarter  That part of a boot or shoe which forms the side, from the heel to the vamp.
Quarter  That part on either side of a horse's hoof between the toe and heel, being the side of the coffin.
Quarter  A term of study in a seminary, college, etc, etc.; properly, a fourth part of the year, but often longer or shorter.
Quarter  The encampment on one of the principal passages round a place besieged, to prevent relief and intercept convoys.
Quarter  The after-part of a vessel's side, generally corresponding in extent with the quarter-deck; also, the part of the yardarm outside of the slings.
Quarter  One of the divisions of an escutcheon when it is divided into four portions by a horizontal and a perpendicular line meeting in the fess point.
Quarter  A division of a town, city, or county; a particular district; a locality; as, the Latin quarter in Paris.
Quarter  A small upright timber post, used in partitions; -- in the United States more commonly called stud.
Quarter  The fourth part of the distance from one point of the compass to another, being the fourth part of 11 15', that is, about 2 49'; -- called also quarter point.
Quarter  Proper station; specific place; assigned position; special location.
Quarter  A station at which officers and men are posted in battle; -- usually in the plural.
Quarter  Place of lodging or temporary residence; shelter; entertainment; -- usually in the plural.
Quarter  A station or encampment occupied by troops; a place of lodging for soldiers or officers; as, winter quarters.
Quarter  Treatment shown by an enemy; mercy; especially, the act of sparing the life a conquered enemy; a refraining from pushing one's advantage to extremes.
Quarter  Friendship; amity; concord.
Quartered  of Quartter
Quartering  of Quartter
Quartter  To divide into four equal parts.
Quartter  To divide; to separate into parts or regions.
Quartter  To furnish with shelter or entertainment; to supply with the means of living for a time; especially, to furnish shelter to; as, to quarter soldiers.
Quartter  To furnish as a portion; to allot.
Quartter  To arrange (different coats of arms) upon one escutcheon, as when a man inherits from both father and mother the right to bear arms.
Quarter  To lodge; to have a temporary residence.
Quarter  To drive a carriage so as to prevent the wheels from going into the ruts, or so that a rut shall be between the wheels.
Quarterage  A quarterly allowance.
Quarter-deck  That part of the upper deck abaft the mainmast, including the poop deck when there is one.
Quarterfoil  An ornamental foliation having four lobes, or foils.
Quarterhung  Having trunnions the axes of which lie below the bore; -- said of a cannon.
Quartering  Coming from a point well abaft the beam, but not directly astern; -- said of waves or any moving object.
Quartering  At right angles, as the cranks of a locomotive, which are in planes forming a right angle with each other.
Quartering  A station.
Quartering  Assignment of quarters for soldiers; quarters.
Quartering  The division of a shield containing different coats of arms into four or more compartments.
Quartering  One of the different coats of arms arranged upon an escutcheon, denoting the descent of the bearer.
Quartering  A series of quarters, or small upright posts. See Quarter, n., 1 (m) (Arch.)
Quarterly  Containing, or consisting of, a fourth part; as, quarterly seasons.
Quarterly  Recurring during, or at the end of, each quarter; as, quarterly payments of rent; a quarterly meeting.
Quarterlies  of Quarterly
Quarterly  A periodical work published once a quarter, or four times in a year.
Quarterly  By quarters; once in a quarter of a year; as, the returns are made quarterly.
Quarterly  In quarters, or quarterings; as, to bear arms quarterly; in four or more parts; -- said of a shield thus divided by lines drawn through it at right angles.
Quartermaster  An officer whose duty is to provide quarters, provisions, storage, clothing, fuel, stationery, and transportation for a regiment or other body of troops, and superintend the supplies.
Quartermaster  A petty officer who attends to the helm, binnacle, signals, and the like, under the direction of the master.
Quartern  A quarter. Specifically: (a) The fourth part of a pint; a gill. (b) The fourth part of a peck, or of a stone (14 ibs.).
Quartern  A loaf of bread weighing about four pounds; -- called also quartern loaf.
Quarteron  A quarter; esp., a quarter of a pound, or a quarter of a hundred.
Quarteron  Alt. of Quarteroon
Quarteroon  A quadroon.
Quarterpace  A platform of a staircase where the stair turns at a right angle only. See Halfpace.
Quarter  An ovolo.
Quarterstaves  of Quarterstaff
Quarterstaff  A long and stout staff formerly used as a weapon of defense and offense; -- so called because in holding it one hand was placed in the middle, and the other between the middle and the end.
Quartet  Alt. of Quartette
Quartette  A composition in four parts, each performed by a single voice or instrument.
Quartette  The set of four person who perform a piece of music in four parts.
Quartette  A stanza of four lines.
Quartic  Of the fourth degree.
Quartic  A quantic of the fourth degree. See Quantic.
Quartic  A curve or surface whose equation is of the fourth degree in the variables.
Quartile  Same as Quadrate.
Quartine  A supposed fourth integument of an ovule, counting from the outside.
Quarto  Having four leaves to the sheet; of the form or size of a quarto.
Quartos  of Quarto
Quarto  Originally, a book of the size of the fourth of sheet of printing paper; a size leaves; in present usage, a book of a square or nearly square form, and usually of large size.
Quartridge  Quarterage.
Quartz  A form of silica, or silicon dioxide (SiO2), occurring in hexagonal crystals, which are commonly colorless and transparent, but sometimes also yellow, brown, purple, green, and of other colors; also in cryptocrystalline massive forms varying in color and degree of transparency, being sometimes opaque.
Quartziferous  Consisting chiefly of quartz; containing quartz.
Quartzite  Massive quartz occurring as a rock; a metamorphosed sandstone; -- called also quartz rock.
Quartzoid  A form of crystal common with quartz, consisting of two six-sided pyramids, base to base.
Quartzose  Containing, or resembling, quartz; partaking of the nature or qualities of quartz.
quartzous  Quarzose.
Quartzy  Quartzose.
Quas  A kind of beer. Same as Quass.
Quaschi  Alt. of Quasje
Quasje  The brown coati. See Coati.
Quash  Same as Squash.
Quashed  of Quash
Quashing  of Quash
Quash  To abate, annul, overthrow, or make void; as, to quash an indictment.
Quash  To beat down, or beat in pieces; to dash forcibly; to crush.
Quash  To crush; to subdue; to suppress or extinguish summarily and completely; as, to quash a rebellion.
Quash  To be shaken, or dashed about, with noise.
Quashee  A negro of the West Indies.
Quasi  As if; as though; as it were; in a manner sense or degree; having some resemblance to; qualified; -- used as an adjective, or a prefix with a noun or an adjective; as, a quasi contract, an implied contract, an obligation which has arisen from some act, as if from a contract; a quasi corporation, a body that has some, but not all, of the peculiar attributes of a corporation; a quasi argument, that which resembles, or is used as, an argument; quasi historical, apparently historical, seeming to be historical.
Quasimodo  The first Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.
Quass  A thin, sour beer, made by pouring warm water on rye or barley meal and letting it ferment, -- much used by the Russians.
Quassation  The act of shaking, or the state of being shaken.
Quassia  The wood of several tropical American trees of the order Simarubeae, as Quassia amara, Picraena excelsa, and Simaruba amara. It is intensely bitter, and is used in medicine and sometimes as a substitute for hops in making beer.
Quassin  The bitter principle of quassia, extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- formerly called quassite.
Quat  A pustule.
Quat  An annoying, worthless person.
Quat  To satiate; to satisfy.
Quata  The coaita.
Quatch  Squat; flat.
Quater-cousin  A cousin within the first four degrees of kindred.
Quaternary  Consisting of four; by fours, or in sets of four.
Quaternary  Later than, or subsequent to, the Tertiary; Post-tertiary; as, the Quaternary age, or Age of man.
Quaternary  The number four.
Quaternary  The Quaternary age, era, or formation. See the Chart of Geology.
Quaternate  Composed of, or arranged in, sets of four; quaternary; as, quaternate leaves.
Quaternion  The number four.
Quaternion  A set of four parts, things, or person; four things taken collectively; a group of four words, phrases, circumstances, facts, or the like.
Quaternion  A word of four syllables; a quadrisyllable.
Quaternion  The quotient of two vectors, or of two directed right lines in space, considered as depending on four geometrical elements, and as expressible by an algebraic symbol of quadrinomial form.
Quaternion  To divide into quaternions, files, or companies.
Quaternity  The number four.
Quaternity  The union of four in one, as of four persons; -- analogous to the theological term trinity.
Quateron  See 2d Quarteron.
Quatorzain  A poem of fourteen lines; a sonnet.
Quatorze  The four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens, in the game of piquet; -- so called because quatorze counts as fourteen points.
Quatrain  A stanza of four lines rhyming alternately.
Quatre  A card, die. or domino, having four spots, or pips
Quatrefeuille  Alt. of Quatrefoil
Quatrefoil  Same as Quarterfoil.
Quatuor  A quartet; -- applied chiefly to instrumental compositions.
Quave  See Quaver.
Quave  To quaver.
Quavemire  See Quagmire.
Quavered  of Quaver
Quavering  of Quaver
Quaver  To tremble; to vibrate; to shake.
Quaver  Especially, to shake the voice; to utter or form sound with rapid or tremulous vibrations, as in singing; also, to trill on a musical instrument
Quaver  To utter with quavers.
Quaver  A shake, or rapid and tremulous vibration, of the voice, or of an instrument of music.
Quaver  An eighth note. See Eighth.
Quaverer  One who quavers; a warbler.
Quay  A mole, bank, or wharf, formed toward the sea, or at the side of a harbor, river, or other navigable water, for convenience in loading and unloading vessels.
Quay  To furnish with quays.
Quayage  Wharfage.
Quayd  p. p. of Quail.
Que  A half farthing.
Queach  A thick, bushy plot; a thicket.
Queach  To stir; to move. See Quick, v. i.
Queachy  Yielding or trembling under the feet, as moist or boggy ground; shaking; moving.
Queachy  Like a queach; thick; bushy.
Quean  A woman; a young or unmarried woman; a girl.
Quean  A low woman; a wench; a slut.
Queasily  In a queasy manner.
Queasiness  The state of being queasy; nausea; qualmishness; squeamishness.
Queasy  Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea; inclined to vomit; qualmish.
Queasy  Fastidious; squeamish; delicate; easily disturbed; unsettled; ticklish.
Quebec  The middle of the three groups into which the rocks of the Canadian period have been divided in the American Lower Silurian system. See the Chart of Geology.
Quebracho  A Chilian apocynaceous tree (Aspidosperma Quebracho); also, its bark, which is used as a febrifuge, and for dyspn/a of the lung, or bronchial diseases; -- called also white quebracho, to distinguish it from the red quebracho, a Mexican anacardiaceous tree (Loxopterygium Lorentzii) whose bark is said to have similar properties.
Quebrith  Sulphur.
Quech  Alt. of Queck
Queck  A word occurring in a corrupt passage of Bacon's Essays, and probably meaning, to stir, to move.
Queen  The wife of a king.
Queen  A woman who is the sovereign of a kingdom; a female monarch; as, Elizabeth, queen of England; Mary, queen of Scots.
Queen  A woman eminent in power or attractions; the highest of her kind; as, a queen in society; -- also used figuratively of cities, countries, etc.
Queen  The fertile, or fully developed, female of social bees, ants, and termites.
Queen  The most powerful, and except the king the most important, piece in a set of chessmen.
Queen  A playing card bearing the picture of a queen; as, the queen of spades.
Queen  A male homosexual, esp. one who is effeminate or dresses in women's clothing.
Queen  To act the part of a queen.
Queened  of Queen
Queening  of Queen
Queen  To make a queen (or other piece, at the player's discretion) of by moving it to the eighth row; as, to queen a pawn.
Queencraft  Craft or skill in policy on the part of a queen.
Queendom  The dominion, condition, or character of a queen.
Queenfish  A California sciaenoid food fish (Seriphys politus). The back is bluish, and the sides and belly bright silvery. Called also kingfish.
Queenhood  The state, personality, or character of a queen; queenliness.
Queening  Any one of several kinds of apples, as summer queening, scarlet queening, and early queening. An apple called the queening was cultivated in England two hundred years ago.
Queenliness  The quality of being queenly; the; characteristic of a queen; stateliness; eminence among women in attractions or power.
Queenly  Like, becoming, or suitable to, a queen.
Queenship  The state, rank, or dignity of a queen.
Queensland  The nut of an Australian tree (Macadamia ternifolia). It is about an inch in diameter, and contains a single round edible seed, or sometimes two hemispherical seeds. So called from Queensland in Australia.
Queen  A truss framed with queen-posts; a queen-post truss.
Queer  At variance with what is usual or normal; differing in some odd way from what is ordinary; odd; singular; strange; whimsical; as, a queer story or act.
Queer  Mysterious; suspicious; questionable; as, a queer transaction.
Queer  Counterfeit money.
Queerish  Rather queer; somewhat singular.
Queerly  In a queer or odd manner.
Queerness  The quality or state of being queer.
Queest  The European ringdove (Columba palumbus); the cushat.
Quegh  A drinking vessel. See Quaich.
Queint  See Quaint.
Queint  imp. & p. p. of Quench.
Queintise  See Quaintise.
Quelled  of Quell
Quelling  of Quell
Quell  To die.
Quell  To be subdued or abated; to yield; to abate.
Quell  To take the life of; to kill.
Quell  To overpower; to subdue; to put down.
Quell  To quiet; to allay; to pacify; to cause to yield or cease; as, to quell grief; to quell the tumult of the soul.
Quell  Murder.
Queller  A killer; as, Jack the Giant Queller.
Queller  One who quells; one who overpowers or subdues.
Quellio  A ruff for the neck.
Quelquechose  A trifle; a kickshaw.
Queme  To please.
Quemeful  Kindly; merciful.
Quenched  of Quench
Quenching  of Quench
Quench  To extinguish; to overwhelm; to make an end of; -- said of flame and fire, of things burning, and figuratively of sensations and emotions; as, to quench flame; to quench a candle; to quench thirst, love, hate, etc.
Quench  To cool suddenly, as heated steel, in tempering.
Quench  To become extinguished; to go out; to become calm or cool.
Quenchable  Capable of being quenched.
Quencher  One who, or that which, quenches.
Quenchless  Incapable of being quenched; inextinguishable; as, quenchless fire or fury.
Quenelle  A kind of delicate forcemeat, commonly poached and used as a dish by itself or for garnishing.
Quenouille  A method of training trees or shrubs in the shape of a cone or distaff by tying down the branches and pruning.
Quercitannic  Pertaining to, or designating, a tannic acid found in oak bark and extracted as a yellowish brown amorphous substance.
Quercite  A white crystalline substance, C6H7(OH)5, found in acorns, the fruit of the oak (Quercus). It has a sweet taste, and is regarded as a pentacid alcohol.
Quercitin  A yellow crystalline substance, occurring quite widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, as is apple-tree bark, horse-chestnut leaves, etc., but originally obtained by the decomposition of quercitrin. Called also meletin.
Quercitrin  A glucoside extracted from the bark of the oak (Quercus) as a bitter citron-yellow crystalline substance, used as a pigment and called quercitron.
Quercitron  The yellow inner bark of the Quercus tinctoria, the American black oak, yellow oak, dyer's oak, or quercitron oak, a large forest tree growing from Maine to eastern Texas.
Quercitron  Quercitrin, used as a pigment. See Quercitrin.
Quercus  A genus of trees constituted by the oak. See Oak.
Querele  A complaint to a court. See Audita Querela.
Querent  A complainant; a plaintiff.
Querent  An inquirer.
Quermonious  Complaining; querulous; apt to complain.
Querimony  A complaint or complaining.
Querist  One who inquires, or asks questions.
Querken  To stifle or choke.
Querl  To twirl; to turn or wind round; to coil; as, to querl a cord, thread, or rope.
Querl  A coil; a twirl; as, the qwerl of hair on the fore leg of a blooded horse.
Quern  A mill for grinding grain, the upper stone of which was turned by hand; -- used before the invention of windmills and watermills.
Querpo  The inner or body garments taken together. See Cuerpo.
Querquedule  A teal.
Querquedule  The pintail duck.
Querry  A groom; an equerry.
Querulential  Querulous.
Querulous  Given to quarreling; quarrelsome.
Querulous  Apt to find fault; habitually complaining; disposed to murmur; as, a querulous man or people.
Querulous  Expressing complaint; fretful; whining; as, a querulous tone of voice.
Queries  of Query
Query  A question; an inquiry to be answered or solved.
Query  A question in the mind; a doubt; as, I have a query about his sincerity.
Query  An interrogation point [?] as the sign of a question or a doubt.
Query  To ask questions; to make inquiry.
Query  To have a doubt; as, I query if he is right.
Queried  of Query
Querying  of Query
Query  To put questions about; to elicit by questioning; to inquire into; as, to query the items or the amount; to query the motive or the fact.
Query  To address questions to; to examine by questions.
Query  To doubt of; to regard with incredulity.
Query  To write " query" (qu., qy., or ?) against, as a doubtful spelling, or sense, in a proof. See Quaere.
Quesal  The long-tailed, or resplendent, trogon (Pharomachus mocinno, formerly Trogon resplendens), native of Southern Mexico and Central America. Called also quetzal, and golden trogon.
Quest  The act of seeking, or looking after anything; attempt to find or obtain; search; pursuit; as, to rove in quest of game, of a lost child, of property, etc.
Quest  Request; desire; solicitation.
Quest  Those who make search or inquiry, taken collectively.
Quest  Inquest; jury of inquest.
Quest  To search for; to examine.
Quest  To go on a quest; to make a search; to go in pursuit; to beg.
Questant  One who undertakes a quest; a seeker.
Quester  One who seeks; a seeker.
Question  The act of asking; interrogation; inquiry; as, to examine by question and answer.
Question  Discussion; debate; hence, objection; dispute; doubt; as, the story is true beyond question; he obeyed without question.
Question  Examination with reference to a decisive result; investigation; specifically, a judicial or official investigation; also, examination under torture.
Question  That which is asked; inquiry; interrogatory; query.
Question  Hence, a subject of investigation, examination, or debate; theme of inquiry; matter to be inquired into; as, a delicate or doubtful question.
Question  Talk; conversation; speech; speech.
Questioned  of Question
Questioning  of Question
Question  To ask questions; to inquire.
Question  To argue; to converse; to dispute.
Question  To inquire of by asking questions; to examine by interrogatories; as, to question a witness.
Question  To doubt of; to be uncertain of; to query.
Question  To raise a question about; to call in question; to make objection to.
Question  To talk to; to converse with.
Questionability  The state or condition of being questionable.
Questionable  Admitting of being questioned; inviting, or seeming to invite, inquiry.
Questionable  Liable to question; subject to be doubted or called in question; problematical; doubtful; suspicious.
Questionableness  The quality or state of being questionable, doubtful, or suspicious.
Questionably  In a questionable manner.
Questionary  Inquiring; asking questions; testing.
Questionary  One who makes it his business to seek after relics and carry them about for sale.
Questioner  One who asks questions; an inquirer.
Questionist  A questioner; an inquirer.
Questionist  A candidate for honors or degrees who is near the time of his examination.
Questionless  Unquestioning; incurious.
Questionless  Beyond a question or doubt; doubtless; certainly.
Questmen  of Questman
Questman  One legally empowered to make quest of certain matters, esp. of abuses of weights and measures.
Questman  A churchwarden's assistant; a sidesman.
Questman  A collector of parish rents.
Questmonger  One who lays informations, and encourages petty lawsuits.
Questor  An officer who had the management of the public treasure; a receiver of taxes, tribute, etc.; treasurer of state.
Questorship  The office, or the term of office, of a questor.
Questrist  A seeker; a pursuer.
Questuary  Studious of profit.
Questuary  One employed to collect profits.
Quet  The common guillemot.
Queue  A tail-like appendage of hair; a pigtail.
Queue  A line of persons waiting anywhere.
Queue  To fasten, as hair, in a queue.
Quey  A heifer.
Quib  A quip; a gibe.
Quibble  A shift or turn from the point in question; a trifling or evasive distinction; an evasion; a cavil.
Quibble  A pun; a low conceit.
Quibbled  of Quibble
Quibbling  of Quibble
Quibble  To evade the point in question by artifice, play upon words, caviling, or by raising any insignificant or impertinent question or point; to trifle in argument or discourse; to equivocate.
Quibble  To pun; to practice punning.
Quibbler  One who quibbles; a caviler; also, a punster.
Quibblingly  Triflingly; evasively.
Quica  A small South American opossum (Didelphys quica), native of Guiana and Brazil. It feeds upon insects, small birds, and fruit.
Quice  See Queest.
Quich  To stir.
Quick  Alive; living; animate; -- opposed to dead or inanimate.
Quick  Characterized by life or liveliness; animated; sprightly; agile; brisk; ready.
Quick  Speedy; hasty; swift; not slow; as, be quick.
Quick  Impatient; passionate; hasty; eager; eager; sharp; unceremonious; as, a quick temper.
Quick  Fresh; bracing; sharp; keen.
Quick  Sensitive; perceptive in a high degree; ready; as, a quick ear.
Quick  Pregnant; with child.
Quick  In a quick manner; quickly; promptly; rapidly; with haste; speedily; without delay; as, run quick; get back quick.
Quick  That which is quick, or alive; a living animal or plant; especially, the hawthorn, or other plants used in making a living hedge.
Quick  The life; the mortal point; a vital part; a part susceptible of serious injury or keen feeling; the sensitive living flesh; the part of a finger or toe to which the nail is attached; the tender emotions; as, to cut a finger nail to the quick; to thrust a sword to the quick, to taunt one to the quick; -- used figuratively.
Quick  Quitch grass.
Quick  To revive; to quicken; to be or become alive.
Quickbeam  See Quicken tree.
quickened  of Quicken
Quickening  of Quicken
Quicken  To make alive; to vivify; to revive or resuscitate, as from death or an inanimate state; hence, to excite; to, stimulate; to incite.
Quicken  To make lively, active, or sprightly; to impart additional energy to; to stimulate; to make quick or rapid; to hasten; to accelerate; as, to quicken one's steps or thoughts; to quicken one's departure or speed.
Quicken  To shorten the radius of (a curve); to make (a curve) sharper; as, to quicken the sheer, that is, to make its curve more pronounced.
Quicken  To come to life; to become alive; to become vivified or enlivened; hence, to exhibit signs of life; to move, as the fetus in the womb.
Quicken  To move with rapidity or activity; to become accelerated; as, his pulse quickened.
Quickener  One who, or that which, quickens.
Quickening  The act or process of making or of becoming quick.
Quickening  The first motion of the fetus in the womb felt by the mother, occurring usually about the middle of the term of pregnancy. It has been popularly supposed to be due to the fetus becoming possessed of independent life.
Quickens  Quitch grass.
Quicken  The European rowan tree; -- called also quickbeam, and quickenbeam. See Rowan tree.
Quickhatch  The wolverine.
Quicklime  Calcium oxide; unslacked lime; -- so called because when wet it develops great heat. See 4th Lime, 2.
Quickly  Speedily; with haste or celerity; soon; without delay; quick.
Quickness  The condition or quality of being quick or living; life.
Quickness  Activity; briskness; especially, rapidity of motion; speed; celerity; as, quickness of wit.
Quickness  Acuteness of perception; keen sensibility.
Quickness  Sharpness; pungency of taste.
Quicksand  Sand easily moved or readily yielding to pressure; especially, a deep mass of loose or moving sand mixed with water, sometimes found at the mouth of a river or along some coasts, and very dangerous, from the difficulty of extricating a person who begins sinking into it.
Quick-scented  Acute of smell.
Quickset  A living plant set to grow, esp. when set for a hedge; specifically, the hawthorn.
Quickset  Made of quickset.
Quickset  To plant with living shrubs or trees for a hedge; as, to quickset a ditch.
Quick-sighted  Having quick sight or acute discernment; quick to see or to discern.
Quicksilver  The metal mercury; -- so called from its resemblance to liquid silver.
Quicksilvered  Overlaid with quicksilver, or with an amalgam of quicksilver and tinfoil.
Quicksilvering  The mercury and foil on the back of a looking-glass.
Quickstep  A lively, spirited march; also, a lively style of dancing.
Quick-witted  Having ready wit
Quick-wittedness  Readiness of wit.
Quickwork  All the submerged section of a vessel's planking.
Quickwork  The planking between the spirketing and the clamps.
Quickwork  The short planks between the portholes.
Quid  A portion suitable to be chewed; a cud; as, a quid of tobacco.
Quid  To drop from the mouth, as food when partially chewed; -- said of horses.
Quidam  Somebody; one unknown.
Quiddany  A confection of quinces, in consistency between a sirup and marmalade.
Quiddative  Constituting, or containing, the essence of a thing; quidditative.
Quiddit  A subtilty; an equivocation.
Quidditative  Quiddative.
Quiddities  of Quiddity
Quiddity  The essence, nature, or distinctive peculiarity, of a thing; that which answers the question, Quid est? or, What is it?
Quiddity  A trifling nicety; a cavil; a quibble.
Quiddled  of Quiddle
Quiddling  of Quiddle
Quiddle  To spend time in trifling employments, or to attend to useful subjects in an indifferent or superficial manner; to dawdle.
Quiddle  Alt. of Quiddler
Quiddler  One who wastes his energy about trifles.
Quidnunc  One who is curious to know everything that passes; one who knows, or pretends to know, all that is going on.
Quiesced  of Quiesce
Quiescing  of Quiesce
Quiesce  To be silent, as a letter; to have no sound.
Quiescence  Alt. of Quiescency
Quiescency  The state or quality of being quiescent.
Quiescent  Being in a state of repose; at rest; still; not moving; as, a quiescent body or fluid.
Quiescent  Not ruffed with passion; unagitated; not in action; not excited; quiet; dormant; resting.
Quiescent  Not sounded; silent; as, y is quiescent in "day" and "say."
Quiescent  A silent letter.
Quiescently  In a quiescent manner.
Quiet  In a state of rest or calm; without stir, motion, or agitation; still; as, a quiet sea; quiet air.
Quiet  Free from noise or disturbance; hushed; still.
Quiet  Not excited or anxious; calm; peaceful; placid; settled; as, a quiet life; a quiet conscience.
Quiet  Not giving offense; not exciting disorder or trouble; not turbulent; gentle; mild; meek; contented.
Quiet  Not showy; not such as to attract attention; undemonstrative; as, a quiet dress; quiet colors; a quiet movement.
Quiet  The quality or state of being quiet, or in repose; as an hour or a time of quiet.
Quiet  Freedom from disturbance, noise, or alarm; stillness; tranquillity; peace; security.
Quieted  of Quiet
Quieting  of Quiet
Quiet  To stop motion in; to still; to reduce to a state of rest, or of silence.
Quiet  To calm; to appease; to pacify; to lull; to allay; to tranquillize; as, to quiet the passions; to quiet clamors or disorders; to quiet pain or grief.
Quiet  To become still, silent, or calm; -- often with down; as, be soon quieted down.
Quietage  Quietness.
Quieter  One who, or that which, quiets.
Quietism  Peace or tranquillity of mind; calmness; indifference; apathy; dispassion; indisturbance; inaction.
Quietism  The system of the Quietists, who maintained that religion consists in the withdrawal of the mind from worldly interests and anxieties and its constant employment in the passive contemplation of God and his attributes.
Quietist  One of a sect of mystics originated in the seventeenth century by Molinos, a Spanish priest living in Rome. See Quietism.
Quietistic  Of or pertaining to the Quietists, or to Quietism.
Quietly  In a quiet state or manner; without motion; in a state of rest; as, to lie or sit quietly.
Quietly  Without tumult, alarm, dispute, or disturbance; peaceably; as, to live quietly; to sleep quietly.
Quietly  Calmly, without agitation or violent emotion; patiently; as, to submit quietly to unavoidable evils.
Quietly  Noiselessly; silently; without remark or violent movement; in a manner to attract little or no observation; as, he quietly left the room.
Quietness  The quality or state of being quiet; freedom from noise, agitation, disturbance, or excitement; stillness; tranquillity; calmness.
Quietsome  Calm; still.
Quietude  Rest; repose; quiet; tranquillity.
Quietus  Final discharge or acquittance, as from debt or obligation; that which silences claims; (Fig.) rest; death.
Quill  One of the large feathers of a bird's wing, or one of the rectrices of the tail; also, the stock of such a feather.
Quill  A pen for writing made by sharpening and splitting the point or nib of the stock of a feather; as, history is the proper subject of his quill.
Quill  A spine of the hedgehog or porcupine.
Quill  The pen of a squid. See Pen.
Quill  The plectrum with which musicians strike the strings of certain instruments.
Quill  The tube of a musical instrument.
Quill  Something having the form of a quill
Quill  The fold or plain of a ruff.
Quill  A spindle, or spool, as of reed or wood, upon which the thread for the woof is wound in a shuttle.
Quill  A hollow spindle.
Quilled  of Quill
Quilling  of Quill
Quill  To plaint in small cylindrical ridges, called quillings; as, to quill a ruffle.
Quill  To wind on a quill, as thread or yarn.
Quillaia  The bark of a rosaceous tree (Quillaja Saponaria), native of Chili. The bark is finely laminated, and very heavy with alkaline substances, and is used commonly by the Chilians instead of soap. Also called soap bark.
Quillback  An American fresh-water fish (Ictiobus, / Carpiodes, cyprinus); -- called also carp sucker, sailfish, spearfish, and skimback.
Quilled  Furnished with quills; also, shaped like quills.
Quillet  Subtilty; nicety; quibble.
Quilling  A band of linen, muslin, or the like, fluted, folded, or plaited so as somewhat to resemble a row of quills.
Quilling  One of the rounded plaits or flutings of such a band.
Quillwort  Any plant or species of the genus Isoetes, cryptogamous plants with a cluster of elongated four-tubed rushlike leaves, rising from a corm, and containing spores in their enlarged and excavated bases. There are about seventeen American species, usually growing in the mud under still, shallow water. So called from the shape of the shape of the leaves.
Quilt  Anything that is quilted; esp., a quilted bed cover, or a skirt worn by women; any cover or garment made by putting wool, cotton, etc., between two cloths and stitching them together; also, any outer bed cover.
Quilted  of Quilt
Quilting  of Quilt
Quilt  To stitch or sew together at frequent intervals, in order to confine in place the several layers of cloth and wadding of which a garment, comforter, etc., may be made; as, to quilt a coat.
Quilt  To wad, as a garment, with warm soft material.
Quilt  To stitch or sew in lines or patterns.
Quilter  One who, or that which, quilts.
Quilting  The act of stitching or running in patterns, as in making a quilt.
Quilting  A quilting bee. See Bee, 2.
Quilting  The material used for making quilts.
Quilting  A coating of strands of rope for a water vessel.
Quin  A European scallop (Pecten opercularis), used as food.
Quinaldine  A colorless liquid of a slightly pungent odor, C9H6N.CH3, first obtained as a condensation product of aldehyde and aniline, and regarded as a derivative of quinoline; -- called also methyl quinoline.
Quinary  Consisting of five; arranged by fives.
Quiname  Growing in sets of five; -- said especially of leaves composed of five leaflets set at the end of a common petiole.
Quinate  A salt of quinic acid.
Quinazol  A complex nitrogenous base related to cinnoline.
Quince  The fruit of a shrub (Cydonia vulgaris) belonging to the same tribe as the apple. It somewhat resembles an apple, but differs in having many seeds in each carpel. It has hard flesh of high flavor, but very acid, and is largely used for marmalade, jelly, and preserves.
Quince  a quince tree or shrub.
Quincewort  The squinancy. Called also quinsywort.
Quinch  To stir; to wince.
Quincuncial  Having the form of a quincunx.
Quincuncial  Having the leaves of a pentamerous calyx or corolla so imbricated that two are exterior, two are interior, and the other has one edge exterior and one interior; as, quincuncial aestivation.
Quincuncially  In the manner or order of a quincunx.
Quincunx  An arrangement of things by fives in a square or a rectangle, one being placed at each corner and one in the middle; especially, such an arrangement of trees repeated indefinitely, so as to form a regular group with rows running in various directions.
Quincunx  The position of planets when distant from each other five signs, or 150.
Quincunx  A quincuncial arrangement, as of the parts of a flower in aestivation. See Quincuncial, 2.
Quindecagon  A plane figure with fifteen angles, and consequently fifteen sides.
Quindecemvirs  of Quindecemvir
Quindecemviri  of Quindecemvir
Quindecemvir  One of a sacerdotal college of fifteen men whose chief duty was to take care of the Sibylline books.
Quindecemvirate  The body or office of the quindecemviri.
Quindecone  An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C15H26, of the valylene series, produced artificially as an oily liquid.
Quindecylic  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the fatty acid series, containing fifteen atoms of carbon; called also pentadecylic acid.
Quindem  A fifteenth part.
Quindism  A fifteenth.
Quinhydrone  A green crystalline substance formed by the union of quinone with hydroquinone, or as an intermediate product in the oxidation of hydroquinone or the reduction of quinone.
Quinia  Quinine.
Quinible  An interval of a fifth; also, a part sung with such intervals.
Quinic  Pertaining to, derived from, or connected with, quinine and related compounds; specifically, designating a nonnitrogenous acid obtained from cinchona bark, coffee, beans, etc., as a white crystalline substance.
Quinicine  An uncrystallizable alkaloid obtained by the action of heat from quinine, with which it is isomeric.
Quinidine  An alkaloid isomeric with, and resembling, quinine, found in certain species of cinchona, from which it is extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance; conchinine. It is used somewhat as a febrifuge.
Quinine  An alkaloid extracted from the bark of several species of cinchona (esp. Cinchona Calisaya) as a bitter white crystalline substance, C20H24N2O2. Hence, by extension (Med.), any of the salts of this alkaloid, as the acetate, chloride, sulphate, etc., employed as a febrifuge or antiperiodic. Called also quinia, quinina, etc.
Quininic  Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid obtained as a yellow crystalline substance by the oxidation of quinine.
Quininism  Alt. of Quinism
Quinism  See Cinchonism.
Quinizarin  A yellow crystalline substance produced artificially. It is isomeric with alizarin.
Quinizine  any one of a series of nitrogenous bases, certain of which are used as antipyretics.
Quinnat  The California salmon (Oncorhynchus choicha); -- called also chouicha, king salmon, chinnook salmon, and Sacramento salmon. It is of great commercial importance.
Quinoa  The seeds of a kind of goosewort (Chenopodium Quinoa), used in Chili and Peru for making porridge or cakes; also, food thus made.
Quinogen  A hypothetical radical of quinine and related alkaloids.
Quinoidine  A brownish resinous substance obtained as a by-product in the treatment of cinchona bark. It consists of a mixture of several alkaloids.
Quinoline  A nitrogenous base, C9H7N obtained as a pungent colorless liquid by the distillation of alkaloids, bones, coal tar, etc. It the nucleus of many organic bodies, especially of certain alkaloids and related substances; hence, by extension, any one of the series of alkaloidal bases of which quinoline proper is the type.
Quinologist  One who is versed in quinology.
Quinology  The science which treats of the cultivation of the cinchona, and of its use in medicine.
Quinone  A crystalline substance, C6H4O2 (called also benzoketone), first obtained by the oxidation of quinic acid and regarded as a double ketone; also, by extension, any one of the series of which quinone proper is the type.
Quinovic  Pertaining to, or designating, a crystalline acid obtained from some varieties of cinchona bark.
Quinovin  An amorphous bitter glucoside derived from cinchona and other barks. Called also quinova bitter, and quinova.
Quinoxaline  Any one of a series of complex nitrogenous bases obtained by the union of certain aniline derivatives with glyoxal or with certain ketones.
Quinoxyl  The hypothetical radical of certain quinone derivatives related to rhodizonic acid.
Quinoyl  A radical of which quinone is the hydride, analogous to phenyl.
Quinquagesima  Fiftieth.
Quinquangular  Having five angles or corners.
Quinquarticular  Relating to the five articles or points; as, the quinquarticular controversy between Arminians and Calvinists.
Quinque-  A combining form meaning five, five times, fivefold; as, quinquefid, five-cleft; quinquedentate, five-toothed.
Quinqueangled  Having five angles; quinquangular.
Quinquedentate  Alt. of Quinquedentated
Quinquedentated  Five-toothed; as, a quinquedentate leaf.
Quinquefarious  Arranged in five vertical rows; pentastichous.
Quinquefid  Sharply cut about halfway to the middle or base into five segments; as, a quinquefid leaf or corolla.
Quinquefoliate  Alt. of Quinquefoliated
Quinquefoliated  Having five leaves or leaflets.
Quinque  Having five leaflets.
Quinqueliteral  Consisting of five letters.
Quinquelobate  Alt. of Quinquelobared
Quinquelobared  Cut less than halfway into portions, usually somewhat rounded; five-lobed; as, a quinquelobate leaf or corolla.
Quinquelobed  Same as Quinquelobate.
Quinquelocular  Having five cells or loculi; five-celled; as, a quinquelocular pericarp.
Quinquenerved  Having five nerves; -- said of a leaf with five nearly equal nerves or ribs rising from the end of the petiole.
Quinquennalia  Public games celebrated every five years.
Quinquennial  Occurring once in five years, or at the end of every five years; also, lasting five years. A quinquennial event.
Quinquennium  Space of five years.
Quinquepartite  Consisting of five parts.
Quinquepartite  Divided into five parts almost to the base.
Quinquereme  A galley having five benches or banks of oars; as, an Athenian quinquereme.
Quinquesyllable  A word of five syllables.
Quinquevalve  Alt. of Quinquevalvular
Quinquevalvular  Having five valves, as a pericarp.
Quinquevirs  of Quinquevir
Quinqueviri  of Quinquevir
Quinquevir  One of five commissioners appointed for some special object.
Quinquina  Peruvian bark.
Quinquivalent  Same as Pentavalent.
Quinsy  An inflammation of the throat, or parts adjacent, especially of the fauces or tonsils, attended by considerable swelling, painful and impeded deglutition, and accompanied by inflammatory fever. It sometimes creates danger of suffocation; -- called also squinancy, and squinzey.
Quint  A set or sequence of five, as in piquet.
Quint  The interval of a fifth.
Quintain  An object to be tilted at; -- called also quintel.
Quintal  A hundredweight, either 112 or 100 pounds, according to the scale used. Cf. Cental.
Quintal  A metric measure of weight, being 100,000 grams, or 100 kilograms, equal to 220.46 pounds avoirdupois.
Quintan  Occurring as the fifth, after four others also, occurring every fifth day, reckoning inclusively; as, a quintan fever.
Quintan  An intermittent fever which returns every fifth day, reckoning inclusively, or in which the intermission lasts three days.
Quintel  See Quintain.
Quintessence  The fifth or last and highest essence or power in a natural body. See Ferment oils, under Ferment.
Quintessence  Hence: An extract from anything, containing its rarest virtue, or most subtle and essential constituent in a small quantity; pure or concentrated essence.
Quintessence  To distil or extract as a quintessence; to reduce to a quintessence.
Quintessential  Of the nature of a quintessence; purest.
Quintet  Alt. of Quintette
Quintette  A composition for five voices or instruments; also, the set of five persons who sing or play five-part music.
Quintic  Of the fifth degree or order.
Quintic  A quantic of the fifth degree. See Quantic.
Quintile  The aspect of planets when separated the fifth part of the zodiac, or 72.
Quintilllion  According to the French notation, which is used on the Continent and in America, the cube of a million, or a unit with eighteen ciphers annexed; according to the English notation, a number produced by involving a million to the fifth power, or a unit with thirty ciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration.
Quintin  See Quintain.
Quintine  The embryonic sac of an ovule, sometimes regarded as an innermost fifth integument. Cf. Quartine, and Tercine.
Quintole  A group of five notes to be played or sung in the time of four of the same species.
Quintuple  Multiplied by five; increased to five times the amount; fivefold.
Quintupled  of Quintuple
Quintupling  of Quintuple
Quintuple  To make fivefold, or five times as much or many.
Quittuple-nerved  Alt. of Quintuple-ribbed
Quintuple-ribbed  The same as Quinquenerved.
Quinzaine  The fifteenth day after a feast day, including both in the reckoning.
Quinze  A game at cards in which the object is to make fifteen points.
Quip  A smart, sarcastic turn or jest; a taunt; a severe retort; a gibe.
Quipped  of Quip
Quipping  of Quip
Quip  To taunt; to treat with quips.
Quip  To scoff; to use taunts.
Quipo  Same as Quipu.
Quipus  of Quipu
Quipu  A contrivance employed by the ancient Peruvians, Mexicans, etc., as a substitute for writing and figures, consisting of a main cord, from which hung at certain distances smaller cords of various colors, each having a special meaning, as silver, gold, corn, soldiers. etc. Single, double, and triple knots were tied in the smaller cords, representing definite numbers. It was chiefly used for arithmetical purposes, and to register important facts and events.
Quirboilly  Leather softened by boiling so as to take any required shape. Upon drying, it becomes exceedingly hard, and hence was formerly used for armor.
Quire  See Choir.
Quire  To sing in concert.
Quire  A collection of twenty-four sheets of paper of the same size and quality, unfolded or having a single fold; one twentieth of a ream.
Quirister  A chorister. See Chorister.
Quiritation  A crying for help.
Quirite  One of the Quirites.
Quirites  Roman citizens.
Quirk  A sudden turn; a starting from the point or line; hence, an artful evasion or subterfuge; a shift; a quibble; as, the quirks of a pettifogger.
Quirk  A fit or turn; a short paroxysm; a caprice.
Quirk  A smart retort; a quibble; a shallow conceit.
Quirk  An irregular air; as, light quirks of music.
Quirk  A piece of ground taken out of any regular ground plot or floor, so as to make a court, yard, etc.; -- sometimes written quink.
Quirk  A small channel, deeply recessed in proportion to its width, used to insulate and give relief to a convex rounded molding.
Quirked  Having, or formed with, a quirk or quirks.
Quirkish  Consisting of quirks; resembling a quirk.
Quirky  Full of quirks; tricky; as, a quirky lawyer.
Quirl  See Querl.
Quirpele  The Indian ferret.
Quirt  A rawhide whip plaited with two thongs of buffalo hide.
Quish  See Cuish.
Quit  Any one of numerous species of small passerine birds native of tropical America. See Banana quit, under Banana, and Guitguit.
Quit  Released from obligation, charge, penalty, etc.; free; clear; absolved; acquitted.
Quit  of Quit
Quitted  of Quit
Quitting  of Quit
Quit  To set at rest; to free, as from anything harmful or oppressive; to relieve; to clear; to liberate.
Quit  To release from obligation, accusation, penalty, or the like; to absolve; to acquit.
Quit  To discharge, as an obligation or duty; to meet and satisfy, as a claim or debt; to make payment for or of; to requite; to repay.
Quit  To meet the claims upon, or expectations entertained of; to conduct; to acquit; -- used reflexively.
Quit  To carry through; to go through to the end.
Quit  To have done with; to cease from; to stop; hence, to depart from; to leave; to forsake; as, to quit work; to quit the place; to quit jesting.
Quit  To away; to depart; to stop doing a thing; to cease.
Quitch  Same as Quitch grass.
Quitch  Figuratively: A vice; a taint; an evil.
Quitch  A perennial grass (Agropyrum repens) having long running rootstalks, by which it spreads rapidly and pertinaciously, and so becomes a troublesome weed. Also called couch grass, quick grass, quick grass, twitch grass. See Illustration in Appendix.
Quitclaim  A release or relinquishment of a claim; a deed of release; an instrument by which some right, title, interest, or claim, which one person has, or is supposed to have, in or to an estate held by himself or another, is released or relinquished, the grantor generally covenanting only against persons who claim under himself.
Quitclaimed  of Quitclaim
Quitclaiming  of Quitclaim
Quitclaim  To release or relinquish a claim to; to release a claim to by deed, without covenants of warranty against adverse and paramount titles.
Quite  See Quit.
Quite  Completely; wholly; entirely; totally; perfectly; as, the work is not quite done; the object is quite accomplished; to be quite mistaken.
Quite  To a great extent or degree; very; very much; considerably.
Quitly  Quite.
Quitrent  A rent reserved in grants of land, by the payment of which the tenant is quit from other service.
Quits  See the Note under Quit, a.
Quittable  Capable of being quitted.
Quittal  Return; requital; quittance.
Quittance  Discharge from a debt or an obligation; acquittance.
Quittance  Recompense; return; repayment.
Quittance  To repay; to requite.
Quitter  One who quits.
Quitter  A deliverer.
Quittor  A chronic abscess, or fistula of the coronet, in a horse's foot, resulting from inflammation of the tissues investing the coffin bone.
Quitture  A discharge; an issue.
Quiver  Nimble; active.
Quivered  of Quiver
Quivering  of Quiver
Quiver  To shake or move with slight and tremulous motion; to tremble; to quake; to shudder; to shiver.
Quiver  The act or state of quivering; a tremor.
Quiver  A case or sheath for arrows to be carried on the person.
Quivered  Furnished with, or carrying, a quiver.
Quivered  Sheathed, as in a quiver.
Quiveringly  With quivering motion.
Qui  The challenge of a French sentinel, or patrol; -- used like the English challenge: "Who comes there?"
Quixotic  Like Don Quixote; romantic to extravagance; absurdly chivalric; apt to be deluded.
Quixotically  In a quixotic way.
Quixotism  That form of delusion which leads to extravagant and absurd undertakings or sacrifices in obedience to a morbidly romantic ideal of duty or honor, as illustrated by the exploits of Don Quixote in knight-errantry.
Quixotry  Quixotism; visionary schemes.
Quiz  A riddle or obscure question; an enigma; a ridiculous hoax.
Quiz  One who quizzes others; as, he is a great quiz.
Quiz  An odd or absurd fellow.
Quiz  An exercise, or a course of exercises, conducted as a coaching or as an examination.
Quizzed  of Quiz
Quizzing  of Quiz
Quiz  To puzzle; to banter; to chaff or mock with pretended seriousness of discourse; to make sport of, as by obscure questions.
Quiz  To peer at; to eye suspiciously or mockingly.
Quiz  To instruct in or by a quiz. See Quiz, n., 4.
Quiz  To conduct a quiz. See Quiz, n., 4.
Quizzer  One who quizzes; a quiz.
Quizzical  Relating to quizzing: given to quizzing; of the nature of a quiz; farcical; sportive.
Quizzism  The act or habit of quizzing.
Quob  To throb; to quiver.
Quod  A quadrangle or court, as of a prison; hence, a prison.
Quod  Quoth; said. See Quoth.
Quoddies  Herring taken and cured or smoked near Quoddy Head, Maine, or near the entrance of Passamaquoddy Ray.
Quodlibet  A nice point; a subtilty; a debatable point.
Quodlibet  A medley improvised by several performers.
Quodlibetarian  One who discusses any subject at pleasure.
Quodlibetical  Not restricted to a particular subject; discussed for curiosity or entertainment.
Quoif  See Coif.
Quoifffure  See Coiffure.
Quoil  See Coil.
Quoin  Originally, a solid exterior angle, as of a building; now, commonly, one of the selected pieces of material by which the corner is marked.
Quoin  A wedgelike piece of stone, wood metal, or other material, used for various purposes
Quoin  to support and steady a stone.
Quoin  To support the breech of a cannon.
Quoin  To wedge or lock up a form within a chase.
ries  of Lachrymatory
Ra-  A prefix, from the Latin re and ad combined, coming to us through the French and Italian. See Re-, and Ad-.
Raash  The electric catfish.
Rab  A rod or stick used by masons in mixing hair with mortar.
Rabat  A polishing material made of potter's clay that has failed in baking.
Rabate  To recover to the fist, as a hawk.
Rabatine  A collar or cape.
Rabato  A kind of ruff for the neck; a turned-down collar; a rebato.
Rabbate  To abate or diminish.
Rabbate  Abatement.
Rabbeted  of Rabbet
Rabbeting  of Rabbet
Rabbet  To cut a rabbet in; to furnish with a rabbet.
Rabbet  To unite the edges of, as boards, etc., in a rabbet joint.
Rabbet  A longitudinal channel, groove, or recess cut out of the edge or face of any body; especially, one intended to receive another member, so as to break or cover the joint, or more easily to hold the members in place; thus, the groove cut for a panel, for a pane of glass, or for a door, is a rabbet, or rebate.
Rabbet  Same as Rabbet joint, below.
Rabbis  of Rabbi
Rabbies  of Rabbi
Rabbi  Master; lord; teacher; -- a Jewish title of respect or honor for a teacher or doctor of the law.
Rabbin  Same as Rabbi.
Rabbinic  Alt. of Rabbinical
Rabbinical  Of or pertaining to the rabbins or rabbis, or pertaining to the opinions, learning, or language of the rabbins.
Rabbinic  The language or dialect of the rabbins; the later Hebrew.
Rabbinically  In a rabbinical manner; after the manner of the rabbins.
Rabbinism  A rabbinic expression or phraseology; a peculiarity of the language of the rabbins.
Rabbinism  The teachings and traditions of the rabbins.
Rabbinist  One among the Jews who adhered to the Talmud and the traditions of the rabbins, in opposition to the Karaites, who rejected the traditions.
Rabbinite  Same as Rabbinist.
Rabbit  Any of the smaller species of the genus Lepus, especially the common European species (Lepus cuniculus), which is often kept as a pet, and has been introduced into many countries. It is remarkably prolific, and has become a pest in some parts of Australia and New Zealand.
Rabbiting  The hunting of rabbits.
Rabbitry  A place where rabbits are kept; especially, a collection of hutches for tame rabbits.
Rabble  An iron bar, with the end bent, used in stirring or skimming molten iron in the process of puddling.
Rabble  To stir or skim with a rabble, as molten iron.
Rabble  To speak in a confused manner.
Rabble  A tumultuous crowd of vulgar, noisy people; a mob; a confused, disorderly throng.
Rabble  A confused, incoherent discourse; a medley of voices; a chatter.
Rabble  Of or pertaining to a rabble; like, or suited to, a rabble; disorderly; vulgar.
Rabbled  of Rabble
Rabbling  of Rabble
Rabble  To insult, or assault, by a mob; to mob; as, to rabble a curate.
Rabble  To utter glibly and incoherently; to mouth without intelligence.
Rabble  To rumple; to crumple.
Rabblement  A tumultuous crowd of low people; a rabble.
Rabbler  A scraping tool for smoothing metal.
Rabble-rout  A tumultuous crowd; a rabble; a noisy throng.
Rabdoidal  See Sagittal.
Rabdology  The method or art of performing arithmetical operations by means of Napier's bones. See Napier's bones.
Rabdomancy  Divination by means of rods or wands.
Rabid  Furious; raging; extremely violent.
Rabid  Extreme, unreasonable, or fanatical in opinion; excessively zealous; as, a rabid socialist.
Rabid  Affected with the distemper called rabies; mad; as, a rabid dog or fox.
Rabid  Of or pertaining to rabies, or hydrophobia; as, rabid virus.
Rabidity  Rabidness; furiousness.
Rabidly  In a rabid manner; with extreme violence.
Rabidness  The quality or state of being rabid.
Rabies  Same as Hydrophobia (b); canine madness.
Rabinet  A kind of small ordnance formerly in use.
Rabious  Fierce.
Rabot  A rubber of hard wood used in smoothing marble to be polished.
Raca  A term of reproach used by the Jews of our Savior's time, meaning "worthless."
Racahout  A preparation from acorns used by the Arabs as a substitute for chocolate, and also as a beverage for invalids.
Raccoon  A North American nocturnal carnivore (Procyon lotor) allied to the bears, but much smaller, and having a long, full tail, banded with black and gray. Its body is gray, varied with black and white. Called also coon, and mapach.
Race  To raze.
Race  A root.
Race  The descendants of a common ancestor; a family, tribe, people, or nation, believed or presumed to belong to the same stock; a lineage; a breed.
Race  Company; herd; breed.
Race  A variety of such fixed character that it may be propagated by seed.
Race  Peculiar flavor, taste, or strength, as of wine; that quality, or assemblage of qualities, which indicates origin or kind, as in wine; hence, characteristic flavor; smack.
Race  Hence, characteristic quality or disposition.
Race  A progress; a course; a movement or progression.
Race  Esp., swift progress; rapid course; a running.
Race  Hence: The act or process of running in competition; a contest of speed in any way, as in running, riding, driving, skating, rowing, sailing; in the plural, usually, a meeting for contests in the running of horses; as, he attended the races.
Race  Competitive action of any kind, especially when prolonged; hence, career; course of life.
Race  A strong or rapid current of water, or the channel or passage for such a current; a powerful current or heavy sea, sometimes produced by the meeting of two tides; as, the Portland Race; the Race of Alderney.
Race  The current of water that turns a water wheel, or the channel in which it flows; a mill race.
Race  A channel or guide along which a shuttle is driven back and forth, as in a loom, sewing machine, etc.
Raced  of Race
Racing  of Race
Race  To run swiftly; to contend in a race; as, the animals raced over the ground; the ships raced from port to port.
Race  To run too fast at times, as a marine engine or screw, when the screw is lifted out of water by the action of a heavy sea.
Race  To cause to contend in a race; to drive at high speed; as, to race horses.
Race  To run a race with.
Racemate  A salt of racemic acid.
Racemation  A cluster or bunch, as of grapes.
Racemation  Cultivation or gathering of clusters of grapes.
Raceme  A flower cluster with an elongated axis and many one-flowered lateral pedicels, as in the currant and chokecherry.
Racemed  Arranged in a raceme, or in racemes.
Racemic  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in many kinds of grapes. It is also obtained from tartaric acid, with which it is isomeric, and from sugar, gum, etc., by oxidation. It is a sour white crystalline substance, consisting of a combination of dextrorotatory and levorotatory tartaric acids.
Racemiferous  Bearing racemes, as the currant.
Racemiform  Having the form of a raceme.
Racemose  Resembling a raceme; growing in the form of a raceme; as, (Bot.) racemose berries or flowers; (Anat.) the racemose glands, in which the ducts are branched and clustered like a raceme.
Racemous  See Racemose.
Racemule  A little raceme.
Racemulose  Growing in very small racemes.
Racer  One who, or that which, races, or contends in a race; esp., a race horse.
Racer  The common American black snake.
Racer  One of the circular iron or steel rails on which the chassis of a heavy gun is turned.
Rach  Alt. of Rache
Rache  A dog that pursued his prey by scent, as distinguished from the greyhound.
Rachialgia  A painful affection of the spine; especially, Pott's disease; also, formerly, lead colic.
Rachidian  Of or pertaining to the rachis; spinal; vertebral. Same as Rhachidian.
Rachilla  Same as Rhachilla.
Rachiodont  Same as Rhachiodont.
Rachises  of Rachis
Rachides  of Rachis
Rachis  The spine; the vertebral column.
Rachis  Same as Rhachis.
Rachitic  Of or pertaining to rachitis; affected by rachitis; rickety.
Rachitis  Literally, inflammation of the spine, but commonly applied to the rickets. See Rickets.
Rachitis  A disease which produces abortion in the fruit or seeds.
Rachitome  A dissecting instrument for opening the spinal canal.
Racial  Of or pertaining to a race or family of men; as, the racial complexion.
Racily  In a racy manner.
Raciness  The quality of being racy; peculiar and piquant flavor.
Racing  a. & n. from Race, v. t. & i.
Rack  Same as Arrack.
Rack  The neck and spine of a fore quarter of veal or mutton.
Rack  A wreck; destruction.
Rack  Thin, flying, broken clouds, or any portion of floating vapor in the sky.
Rack  To fly, as vapor or broken clouds.
Racked  of Rack
Racking  of Rack
Rack  To amble fast, causing a rocking or swaying motion of the body; to pace; -- said of a horse.
Rack  A fast amble.
Rack  To draw off from the lees or sediment, as wine.
Rack  An instrument or frame used for stretching, extending, retaining, or displaying, something.
Rack  An engine of torture, consisting of a large frame, upon which the body was gradually stretched until, sometimes, the joints were dislocated; -- formerly used judicially for extorting confessions from criminals or suspected persons.
Rack  An instrument for bending a bow.
Rack  A grate on which bacon is laid.
Rack  A frame or device of various construction for holding, and preventing the waste of, hay, grain, etc., supplied to beasts.
Rack  A frame on which articles are deposited for keeping or arranged for display; as, a clothes rack; a bottle rack, etc.
Rack  A piece or frame of wood, having several sheaves, through which the running rigging passes; -- called also rack block. Also, a frame to hold shot.
Rack  A frame or table on which ores are separated or washed.
Rack  A frame fitted to a wagon for carrying hay, straw, or grain on the stalk, or other bulky loads.
Rack  A distaff.
Rack  A bar with teeth on its face, or edge, to work with those of a wheel, pinion, or worm, which is to drive it or be driven by it.
Rack  That which is extorted; exaction.
Rack  To extend by the application of force; to stretch or strain; specifically, to stretch on the rack or wheel; to torture by an engine which strains the limbs and pulls the joints.
Rack  To torment; to torture; to affect with extreme pain or anguish.
Rack  To stretch or strain, in a figurative sense; hence, to harass, or oppress by extortion.
Rack  To wash on a rack, as metals or ore.
Rack  To bind together, as two ropes, with cross turns of yarn, marline, etc.
Rackabones  A very lean animal, esp. a horse.
Racker  One who racks.
Racker  A horse that has a racking gait.
Racket  A thin strip of wood, having the ends brought together, forming a somewhat elliptical hoop, across which a network of catgut or cord is stretched. It is furnished with a handle, and is used for catching or striking a ball in tennis and similar games.
Racket  A variety of the game of tennis played with peculiar long-handled rackets; -- chiefly in the plural.
Racket  A snowshoe formed of cords stretched across a long and narrow frame of light wood.
Racket  A broad wooden shoe or patten for a man or horse, to enable him to step on marshy or soft ground.
Racket  To strike with, or as with, a racket.
Racket  Confused, clattering noise; din; noisy talk or sport.
Racket  A carouse; any reckless dissipation.
Racketed  of Racket
Racketing  of Racket
Racket  To make a confused noise or racket.
Racket  To engage in noisy sport; to frolic.
Racket  To carouse or engage in dissipation.
Racketer  One who makes, or engages in, a racket.
Rackett  An old wind instrument of the double bassoon kind, having ventages but not keys.
Racket-tail  Any one of several species of humming birds of the genus Steganura, having two of the tail feathers very long and racket-shaped.
Racket-tailed  Having long and spatulate, or racket-shaped, tail feathers.
Rackety  Making a tumultuous noise.
Racking  Spun yarn used in racking ropes.
Rack-rent  A rent of the full annual value of the tenement, or near it; an excessive or unreasonably high rent.
Rack-rent  To subject to rack-rent, as a farm or tenant.
Rack-renter  One who is subjected to paying rack-rent.
Rack-renter  One who exacts rack-rent.
Racktail  An arm attached to a swinging notched arc or rack, to let off the striking mechanism of a repeating clock.
Rackwork  Any mechanism having a rack, as a rack and pinion.
Racle  See Rakel.
Racleness  See Rakelness.
Raconteur  A relater; a storyteller.
Racoonda  The coypu.
Racovian  One of a sect of Socinians or Unitarians in Poland.
Racquet  See Racket.
Racy  Having a strong flavor indicating origin; of distinct characteristic taste; tasting of the soil; hence, fresh; rich.
Racy  Hence: Exciting to the mental taste by a strong or distinctive character of thought or language; peculiar and piquant; fresh and lively.
Rad  imp. & p. p. of Read, Rede.
Radde  imp. of Read, Rede.
Raddle  A long, flexible stick, rod, or branch, which is interwoven with others, between upright posts or stakes, in making a kind of hedge or fence.
Raddle  A hedge or fence made with raddles; -- called also raddle hedge.
Raddle  An instrument consisting of a wooden bar, with a row of upright pegs set in it, used by domestic weavers to keep the warp of a proper width, and prevent tangling when it is wound upon the beam of the loom.
Raddle  To interweave or twist together.
Raddle  A red pigment used in marking sheep, and in some mechanical processes; ruddle.
Raddle  To mark or paint with, or as with, raddle.
Raddock  The ruddock.
Rade  A raid.
Radeau  A float; a raft.
Radial  Of or pertaining to a radius or ray; consisting of, or like, radii or rays; radiated; as, (Bot.) radial projections; (Zool.) radial vessels or canals; (Anat.) the radial artery.
Radialia  of Radiale
Radiale  The bone or cartilage of the carpus which articulates with the radius and corresponds to the scaphoid bone in man.
Radiale  Radial plates in the calyx of a crinoid.
Radially  In a radial manner.
Radian  An arc of a circle which is equal to the radius, or the angle measured by such an arc.
Radiance  Alt. of Radiancy
Radiancy  The quality of being radiant; brilliancy; effulgence; vivid brightness; as, the radiance of the sun.
Radiant  Emitting or proceeding as from a center; resembling rays; radiating; radiate.
Radiant  Especially, emitting or darting rays of light or heat; issuing in beams or rays; beaming with brightness; emitting a vivid light or splendor; as, the radiant sun.
Radiant  Beaming with vivacity and happiness; as, a radiant face.
Radiant  Giving off rays; -- said of a bearing; as, the sun radiant; a crown radiant.
Radiant  Having a raylike appearance, as the large marginal flowers of certain umbelliferous plants; -- said also of the cluster which has such marginal flowers.
Radiant  The luminous point or object from which light emanates; also, a body radiating light brightly.
Radiant  A straight line proceeding from a given point, or fixed pole, about which it is conceived to revolve.
Radiant  The point in the heavens at which the apparent paths of shooting stars meet, when traced backward, or whence they appear to radiate.
Radiantly  In a radiant manner; with glittering splendor.
Radiary  A radiate.
Radiata  An extensive artificial group of invertebrates, having all the parts arranged radially around the vertical axis of the body, and the various organs repeated symmetrically in each ray or spheromere.
Radiated  of Radiate
Radiating  of Radiate
Radiate  To emit rays; to be radiant; to shine.
Radiate  To proceed in direct lines from a point or surface; to issue in rays, as light or heat.
Radiate  To emit or send out in direct lines from a point or points; as, to radiate heat.
Radiate  To enlighten; to illuminate; to shed light or brightness on; to irradiate.
Radiate  Having rays or parts diverging from a center; radiated; as, a radiate crystal.
Radiate  Having in a capitulum large ray florets which are unlike the disk florets, as in the aster, daisy, etc.
Radiate  Belonging to the Radiata.
Radiate  One of the Radiata.
Radiated  Emitted, or sent forth, in rays or direct lines; as, radiated heat.
Radiated  Formed of, or arranged like, rays or radii; having parts or markings diverging, like radii, from a common center or axis; as, a radiated structure; a radiated group of crystals.
Radiated  Belonging to the Radiata.
Radiately  In a radiate manner; with radiation or divergence from a center.
Radiate-veined  Having the principal veins radiating, or diverging, from the apex of the petiole; -- said of such leaves as those of the grapevine, most maples, and the castor-oil plant.
Radiatiform  Having the marginal florets enlarged and radiating but not ligulate, as in the capitula or heads of the cornflower.
Radiation  The act of radiating, or the state of being radiated; emission and diffusion of rays of light; beamy brightness.
Radiation  The shooting forth of anything from a point or surface, like the diverging rays of light; as, the radiation of heat.
Radiative  Capable of radiating; acting by radiation.
Radiator  That which radiates or emits rays, whether of light or heat; especially, that part of a heating apparatus from which the heat is radiated or diffused; as, a steam radiator.
Radical  Of or pertaining to the root; proceeding directly from the root.
Radical  Hence: Of or pertaining to the root or origin; reaching to the center, to the foundation, to the ultimate sources, to the principles, or the like; original; fundamental; thorough-going; unsparing; extreme; as, radical evils; radical reform; a radical party.
Radical  Belonging to, or proceeding from, the root of a plant; as, radical tubers or hairs.
Radical  Proceeding from a rootlike stem, or one which does not rise above the ground; as, the radical leaves of the dandelion and the sidesaddle flower.
Radical  Relating, or belonging, to the root, or ultimate source of derivation; as, a radical verbal form.
Radical  Of or pertaining to a radix or root; as, a radical quantity; a radical sign. See below.
Radical  A primitive word; a radix, root, or simple, underived, uncompounded word; an etymon.
Radical  A primitive letter; a letter that belongs to the radix.
Radical  One who advocates radical changes in government or social institutions, especially such changes as are intended to level class inequalities; -- opposed to conservative.
Radical  A characteristic, essential, and fundamental constituent of any compound; hence, sometimes, an atom.
Radical  Specifically, a group of two or more atoms, not completely saturated, which are so linked that their union implies certain properties, and are conveniently regarded as playing the part of a single atom; a residue; -- called also a compound radical. Cf. Residue.
Radical  A radical quantity. See under Radical, a.
Radical  A radical vessel. See under Radical, a.
Radicalism  The quality or state of being radical; specifically, the doctrines or principles of radicals in politics or social reform.
Radicality  Germinal principle; source; origination.
Radicality  Radicalness; relation to a root in essential nature or principle.
Radically  In a radical manner; at, or from, the origin or root; fundamentally; as, a scheme or system radically wrong or defective.
Radically  Without derivation; primitively; essentially.
Radicalness  Quality or state of being radical.
Radicant  Taking root on, or above, the ground; rooting from the stem, as the trumpet creeper and the ivy.
Radicate  Radicated.
Radicate  To take root; to become rooted.
Radicated  of Radicate
Radicating  of Radicate
Radicate  To cause to take root; to plant deeply and firmly; to root.
Radicated  Rooted
Radicated  Having roots, or possessing a well-developed root.
Radicated  Having rootlike organs for attachment.
Radication  The process of taking root, or state of being rooted; as, the radication of habits.
Radication  The disposition of the roots of a plant.
Radicel  A small branch of a root; a rootlet.
Radiciflorous  Rhizanthous.
Radiciform  Having the nature or appearance of a radix or root.
Radicle  The rudimentary stem of a plant which supports the cotyledons in the seed, and from which the root is developed downward; the stem of the embryo; the caulicle.
Radicle  A rootlet; a radicel.
Radicular  Of or pertaining to roots, or the root of a plant.
Radicule  A radicle.
Radiculose  Producing numerous radicles, or rootlets.
Radii  pl. of Radius.
Radio-  A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, a radius or ray; specifically (Anat.), with the radius of the forearm; as, radio-ulnar, radio-muscular, radio-carpal.
Radio-flagellata  A group of Protozoa having both flagella and pseudopodia.
Radiograph  A picture produced by the Rontgen rays upon a sensitive surface, photographic or fluorescent, especially a picture of opaque objects traversed by the rays.
Radiolaria  Order of rhizopods, usually having a siliceous skeleton, or shell, and sometimes radiating spicules. The pseudopodia project from the body like rays. It includes the polycystines. See Polycystina.
Radiolarian  Of or pertaining to the Radiolaria.
Radiolarian  One of the Radiolaria.
Radioli  The barbs of the radii of a feather; barbules.
Radiolite  A hippurite.
Radiometer  A forestaff.
Radiometer  An instrument designed for measuring the mechanical effect of radiant energy.
Radiomicrometer  A very sensitive modification or application of the thermopile, used for indicating minute changes of radiant heat, or temperature.
Radiophone  An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of luminous or thermal rays. It is essentially the same as the photophone.
Radiophony  The art or practice of using the radiophone.
Radious  Consisting of rays, as light.
Radious  Radiating; radiant.
Radish  The pungent fleshy root of a well-known cruciferous plant (Raphanus sativus); also, the whole plant.
Radii  of Radius
Radiuses  of Radius
Radius  A right line drawn or extending from the center of a circle to the periphery; the semidiameter of a circle or sphere.
Radius  The preaxial bone of the forearm, or brachium, corresponding to the tibia of the hind limb. See Illust. of Artiodactyla.
Radius  A ray, or outer floret, of the capitulum of such plants as the sunflower and the daisy. See Ray, 2.
Radius  The barbs of a perfect feather.
Radius  Radiating organs, or color-markings, of the radiates.
Radius  The movable limb of a sextant or other angular instrument.
Radius  A straight line (or the length of such line) connecting any point, as of a curve, with a fixed point, or pole, round which the straight line turns, and to which it serves to refer the successive points of a curve, in a system of polar coordinates. See Coordinate, n.
Radius  An ideal straight line joining the center of an attracting body with that of a body describing an orbit around it, as a line joining the sun and a planet or comet, or a planet and its satellite.
Radices  of Radix
Radixes  of Radix
Radix  A primitive word, from which spring other words; a radical; a root; an etymon.
Radix  A number or quantity which is arbitrarily made the fundamental number of any system; a base. Thus, 10 is the radix, or base, of the common system of logarithms, and also of the decimal system of numeration.
Radix  A finite expression, from which a series is derived.
Radix  The root of a plant.
Radulae  of Radula
Radula  The chitinous ribbon bearing the teeth of mollusks; -- called also lingual ribbon, and tongue. See Odontophore.
Raduliform  Rasplike; as, raduliform teeth.
Raffed  of Raff
Raffing  of Raff
Raff  To sweep, snatch, draw, or huddle together; to take by a promiscuous sweep.
Raff  A promiscuous heap; a jumble; a large quantity; lumber; refuse.
Raff  The sweepings of society; the rabble; the mob; -- chiefly used in the compound or duplicate, riffraff.
Raff  A low fellow; a churl.
Raffaelesque  Raphaelesque.
Raffia  A fibrous material used for tying plants, said to come from the leaves of a palm tree of the genus Raphia.
Raffinose  A colorless crystalline slightly sweet substance obtained from the molasses of the sugar beet.
Raffish  Resembling, or having the character of, raff, or a raff; worthless; low.
Raffle  A kind of lottery, in which several persons pay, in shares, the value of something put up as a stake, and then determine by chance (as by casting dice) which one of them shall become the sole possessor.
Raffle  A game of dice in which he who threw three alike won all the stakes.
Raffled  of Raffle
Raffling  of Raffle
Raffle  To engage in a raffle; as, to raffle for a watch.
Raffle  To dispose of by means of a raffle; -- often followed by off; as, to raffle off a horse.
Raffler  One who raffles.
Rafflesia  A genus of stemless, leafless plants, living parasitically upon the roots and stems of grapevines in Malaysia. The flowers have a carrionlike odor, and are very large, in one species (Rafflesia Arnoldi) having a diameter of two or three feet.
Raft  imp. & p. p. of Reave.
Raft  A collection of logs, boards, pieces of timber, or the like, fastened together, either for their own collective conveyance on the water, or to serve as a support in conveying other things; a float.
Raft  A collection of logs, fallen trees, etc. (such as is formed in some Western rivers of the United States), which obstructs navigation.
Raft  A large collection of people or things taken indiscriminately.
Rafted  of Raft
Rafting  of Raft
Raft  To transport on a raft, or in the form of a raft; to make into a raft; as, to raft timber.
Rafte  imp. of Reave.
Rafter  A raftsman.
Rafter  Originally, any rough and somewhat heavy piece of timber. Now, commonly, one of the timbers of a roof which are put on sloping, according to the inclination of the roof. See Illust. of Queen-post.
Rafter  To make into rafters, as timber.
Rafter  To furnish with rafters, as a house.
Rafter  To plow so as to turn the grass side of each furrow upon an unplowed ridge; to ridge.
Rafting  The business of making or managing rafts.
Raftsmen  of Raftsman
Raftsman  A man engaged in rafting.
Rafty  Damp; musty.
Rag  To scold or rail at; to rate; to tease; to torment; to banter.
Rag  A piece of cloth torn off; a tattered piece of cloth; a shred; a tatter; a fragment.
Rag  Hence, mean or tattered attire; worn-out dress.
Rag  A shabby, beggarly fellow; a ragamuffin.
Rag  A coarse kind of rock, somewhat cellular in texture.
Rag  A ragged edge.
Rag  A sail, or any piece of canvas.
Ragged  of Rag
Ragging  of Rag
Rag  To become tattered.
Rag  To break (ore) into lumps for sorting.
Rag  To cut or dress roughly, as a grindstone.
Ragabash  Alt. of Ragabrash
Ragabrash  An idle, ragged person.
Ragamuffin  A paltry or disreputable fellow; a mean wretch.
Ragamuffin  A person who wears ragged clothing.
Ragamuffin  The long-tailed titmouse.
Rage  Violent excitement; eager passion; extreme vehemence of desire, emotion, or suffering, mastering the will.
Rage  Especially, anger accompanied with raving; overmastering wrath; violent anger; fury.
Rage  A violent or raging wind.
Rage  The subject of eager desire; that which is sought after, or prosecuted, with unreasonable or excessive passion; as, to be all the rage.
Raged  of Rage
Raging  of Rage
Rage  To be furious with anger; to be exasperated to fury; to be violently agitated with passion.
Rage  To be violent and tumultuous; to be violently driven or agitated; to act or move furiously; as, the raging sea or winds.
Rage  To ravage; to prevail without restraint, or with destruction or fatal effect; as, the plague raged in Cairo.
Rage  To toy or act wantonly; to sport.
Rage  To enrage.
Rageful  Full of rage; expressing rage.
Ragery  Wantonness.
Ragged  Rent or worn into tatters, or till the texture is broken; as, a ragged coat; a ragged sail.
Ragged  Broken with rough edges; having jags; uneven; rough; jagged; as, ragged rocks.
Ragged  Hence, harsh and disagreeable to the ear; dissonant.
Ragged  Wearing tattered clothes; as, a ragged fellow.
Ragged  Rough; shaggy; rugged.
Raggie  Alt. of Raggy
Raggy  Ragged; rough.
Raghuvansa  A celebrated Sanskrit poem having for its subject the Raghu dynasty.
Raging  a. & n. from Rage, v. i.
Ragious  Raging; furious; rageful.
Raglan  A loose overcoat with large sleeves; -- named from Lord Raglan, an English general.
Ragmen  of Ragman
Ragman  A man who collects, or deals in, rags.
Ragman  A document having many names or numerous seals, as a papal bull.
Ragman's  The rolls of deeds on parchment in which the Scottish nobility and gentry subscribed allegiance to Edward I. of England, A. D. 1296.
Ragout  A dish made of pieces of meat, stewed, and highly seasoned; as, a ragout of mutton.
Ragpicker  One who gets a living by picking up rags and refuse things in the streets.
Raguled  Alt. of Ragguled
Ragguled  Notched in regular diagonal breaks; -- said of a line, or a bearing having such an edge.
Ragweed  A common American composite weed (Ambrosia artemisiaefolia) with finely divided leaves; hogweed.
Ragwork  A kind of rubblework. In the United States, any rubblework of thin and small stones.
Ragwort  A name given to several species of the composite genus Senecio.
Raia  A genus of rays which includes the skates. See Skate.
Raiae  The order of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sawfishes, skates, and rays; -- called also Rajae, and Rajii.
Raid  A hostile or predatory incursion; an inroad or incursion of mounted men; a sudden and rapid invasion by a cavalry force; a foray.
Raid  An attack or invasion for the purpose of making arrests, seizing property, or plundering; as, a raid of the police upon a gambling house; a raid of contractors on the public treasury.
Raided  of Raid
Raiding  of Raid
Raid  To make a raid upon or into; as, two regiments raided the border counties.
Raider  One who engages in a raid.
Rail  An outer cloak or covering; a neckerchief for women.
Rail  To flow forth; to roll out; to course.
Rail  A bar of timber or metal, usually horizontal or nearly so, extending from one post or support to another, as in fences, balustrades, staircases, etc.
Rail  A horizontal piece in a frame or paneling. See Illust. of Style.
Rail  A bar of steel or iron, forming part of the track on which the wheels roll. It is usually shaped with reference to vertical strength, and is held in place by chairs, splices, etc.
Rail  The stout, narrow plank that forms the top of the bulwarks.
Rail  The light, fencelike structures of wood or metal at the break of the deck, and elsewhere where such protection is needed.
Railed  of Rail
Railing  of Rail
Rail  To inclose with rails or a railing.
Rail  To range in a line.
Rail  Any one of numerous species of limicoline birds of the family Rallidae, especially those of the genus Rallus, and of closely allied genera. They are prized as game birds.
Rail  To use insolent and reproachful language; to utter reproaches; to scoff; -- followed by at or against, formerly by on.
Rail  To rail at.
Rail  To move or influence by railing.
Railer  One who rails; one who scoffs, insults, censures, or reproaches with opprobrious language.
Railing  Expressing reproach; insulting.
Railing  A barrier made of a rail or of rails.
Railing  Rails in general; also, material for making rails.
Railingly  With scoffing or insulting language.
Raillery  Pleasantry or slight satire; banter; jesting language; satirical merriment.
Railleur  A banterer; a jester; a mocker.
Railroad  Alt. of Railway
Railway  A road or way consisting of one or more parallel series of iron or steel rails, patterned and adjusted to be tracks for the wheels of vehicles, and suitably supported on a bed or substructure.
Railway  The road, track, etc., with all the lands, buildings, rolling stock, franchises, etc., pertaining to them and constituting one property; as, a certain railroad has been put into the hands of a receiver.
Railroading  The construction of a railroad; the business of managing or operating a railroad.
Raiment  Clothing in general; vesture; garments; -- usually singular in form, with a collective sense.
Raiment  An article of dress.
Rain  Reign.
Rain  Water falling in drops from the clouds; the descent of water from the clouds in drops.
Rained  of Rain
Raining  of Rain
Rain  To fall in drops from the clouds, as water; -- used mostly with it for a nominative; as, it rains.
Rain  To fall or drop like water from the clouds; as, tears rained from their eyes.
Rain  To pour or shower down from above, like rain from the clouds.
Rain  To bestow in a profuse or abundant manner; as, to rain favors upon a person.
Rainbow  A bow or arch exhibiting, in concentric bands, the several colors of the spectrum, and formed in the part of the hemisphere opposite to the sun by the refraction and reflection of the sun's rays in drops of falling rain.
Rainbowed  Formed with or like a rainbow.
Raindeer  See Reindeer.
Raindrop  A drop of rain.
Rainfall  A fall or descent of rain; the water, or amount of water, that falls in rain; as, the average annual rainfall of a region.
Raininess  The state of being rainy.
Rainless  Destitute of rain; as, a rainless region.
Rain-tight  So tight as to exclude rain; as, a rain-tight roof.
Rainy  Abounding with rain; wet; showery; as, rainy weather; a rainy day or season.
Raip  A rope; also, a measure equal to a rod.
Rais  Same as 2d Reis.
Raisable  Capable of being raised.
Raised  of Raise
Raising  of Raise
Raise  To cause to rise; to bring from a lower to a higher place; to lift upward; to elevate; to heave; as, to raise a stone or weight.
Raise  To bring to a higher condition or situation; to elevate in rank, dignity, and the like; to increase the value or estimation of; to promote; to exalt; to advance; to enhance; as, to raise from a low estate; to raise to office; to raise the price, and the like.
Raise  To increase the strength, vigor, or vehemence of; to excite; to intensify; to invigorate; to heighten; as, to raise the pulse; to raise the voice; to raise the spirits or the courage; to raise the heat of a furnace.
Raise  To elevate in degree according to some scale; as, to raise the pitch of the voice; to raise the temperature of a room.
Raise  To cause to rise up, or assume an erect position or posture; to set up; to make upright; as, to raise a mast or flagstaff.
Raise  To cause to spring up from a recumbent position, from a state of quiet, or the like; to awaken; to arouse.
Raise  To rouse to action; to stir up; to incite to tumult, struggle, or war; to excite.
Raise  To bring up from the lower world; to call up, as a spirit from the world of spirits; to recall from death; to give life to.
Raise  To cause to arise, grow up, or come into being or to appear; to give rise to; to originate, produce, cause, effect, or the like.
Raise  To form by the accumulation of materials or constituent parts; to build up; to erect; as, to raise a lofty structure, a wall, a heap of stones.
Raise  To bring together; to collect; to levy; to get together or obtain for use or service; as, to raise money, troops, and the like.
Raise  To cause to grow; to procure to be produced, bred, or propagated; to grow; as, to raise corn, barley, hops, etc.; toraise cattle.
Raise  To bring into being; to produce; to cause to arise, come forth, or appear; -- often with up.
Raise  To give rise to; to set agoing; to occasion; to start; to originate; as, to raise a smile or a blush.
Raise  To give vent or utterance to; to utter; to strike up.
Raise  To bring to notice; to submit for consideration; as, to raise a point of order; to raise an objection.
Raise  To cause to rise, as by the effect of leaven; to make light and spongy, as bread.
Raise  To cause (the land or any other object) to seem higher by drawing nearer to it; as, to raise Sandy Hook light.
Raise  To let go; as in the command, Raise tacks and sheets, i. e., Let go tacks and sheets.
Raise  To create or constitute; as, to raise a use, that is, to create it.
Raised  Lifted up; showing above the surroundings; as, raised or embossed metal work.
Raised  Leavened; made with leaven, or yeast; -- used of bread, cake, etc., as distinguished from that made with cream of tartar, soda, etc. See Raise, v. t., 4.
Raiser  One who, or that which, raises (in various senses of the verb).
Raisin  A grape, or a bunch of grapes.
Raisin  A grape dried in the sun or by artificial heat.
Raising  The act of lifting, setting up, elevating, exalting, producing, or restoring to life.
Raising  Specifically, the operation or work of setting up the frame of a building; as, to help at a raising.
Raising  The operation of embossing sheet metal, or of forming it into cup-shaped or hollow articles, by hammering, stamping, or spinning.
Raisonne  Arranged systematically, or according to classes or subjects; as, a catalogue raisonne. See under Catalogue.
Raivel  A separator.
Raj  Reign; rule.
Raja  Same as Rajah.
Rajah  A native prince or king; also, a landholder or person of importance in the agricultural districts.
Rajahship  The office or dignity of a rajah.
Rajpoot  Alt. of Rajput
Rajput  A Hindoo of the second, or royal and military, caste; a Kshatriya; especially, an inhabitant of the country of Rajpootana, in northern central India.
Rake  An implement consisting of a headpiece having teeth, and a long handle at right angles to it, -- used for collecting hay, or other light things which are spread over a large surface, or for breaking and smoothing the earth.
Rake  A toothed machine drawn by a horse, -- used for collecting hay or grain; a horserake.
Rake  A fissure or mineral vein traversing the strata vertically, or nearly so; -- called also rake-vein.
Raked  of Rake
Raking  of Rake
Rake  To collect with a rake; as, to rake hay; -- often with up; as, he raked up the fallen leaves.
Rake  To collect or draw together with laborious industry; to gather from a wide space; to scrape together; as, to rake together wealth; to rake together slanderous tales; to rake together the rabble of a town.
Rake  To pass a rake over; to scrape or scratch with a rake for the purpose of collecting and clearing off something, or for stirring up the soil; as, to rake a lawn; to rake a flower bed.
Rake  To search through; to scour; to ransack.
Rake  To scrape or scratch across; to pass over quickly and lightly, as a rake does.
Rake  To enfilade; to fire in a direction with the length of; in naval engagements, to cannonade, as a ship, on the stern or head so that the balls range the whole length of the deck.
Rake  To use a rake, as for searching or for collecting; to scrape; to search minutely.
Rake  To pass with violence or rapidity; to scrape along.
Rake  The inclination of anything from a perpendicular direction; as, the rake of a roof, a staircase, etc.
Rake  the inclination of a mast or funnel, or, in general, of any part of a vessel not perpendicular to the keel.
Rake  To incline from a perpendicular direction; as, a mast rakes aft.
Rake  A loose, disorderly, vicious man; a person addicted to lewdness and other scandalous vices; a debauchee; a roue.
Rake  To walk about; to gad or ramble idly.
Rake  To act the rake; to lead a dissolute, debauched life.
Rakehell  A lewd, dissolute fellow; a debauchee; a rake.
Rakehell  Alt. of Rakehelly
Rakehelly  Dissolute; wild; lewd; rakish.
Rakel  Hasty; reckless; rash.
Raker  One who, or that which, rakes
Raker  A person who uses a rake.
Raker  A machine for raking grain or hay by horse or other power.
Raker  A gun so placed as to rake an enemy's ship.
Raker  See Gill rakers, under 1st Gill.
Rakery  Debauchery; lewdness.
Rakeshame  A vile, dissolute wretch.
Rakestale  The handle of a rake.
Rake-vein  See Rake, a mineral vein.
Raking  The act or process of using a rake; the going over a space with a rake.
Raking  A space gone over with a rake; also, the work done, or the quantity of hay, grain, etc., collected, by going once over a space with a rake.
Rakish  Dissolute; lewd; debauched.
Rakish  Having a saucy appearance indicative of speed and dash.
Rakishly  In a rakish manner.
Rakishness  The quality or state of being rakish.
Raku  A kind of earthenware made in Japan, resembling Satsuma ware, but having a paler color.
Rale  An adventitious sound, usually of morbid origin, accompanying the normal respiratory sounds. See Rhonchus.
Rallentando  Slackening; -- a direction to perform a passage with a gradual decrease in time and force; ritardando.
Ralliance  The act of rallying.
Rallier  One who rallies.
Ralline  Pertaining to the rails.
Rallied  of Rally
Rallying  of Rally
Rally  To collect, and reduce to order, as troops dispersed or thrown into confusion; to gather again; to reunite.
Rally  To come into orderly arrangement; to renew order, or united effort, as troops scattered or put to flight; to assemble; to unite.
Rally  To collect one's vital powers or forces; to regain health or consciousness; to recuperate.
Rally  To recover strength after a decline in prices; -- said of the market, stocks, etc.
Rallies  of Rally
Rally  The act or process of rallying (in any of the senses of that word).
Rally  A political mass meeting.
Rally  To attack with raillery, either in good humor and pleasantry, or with slight contempt or satire.
Rally  To use pleasantry, or satirical merriment.
Rally  Good-humored raillery.
Ralph  A name sometimes given to the raven.
Ralstonite  A fluoride of alumina and soda occurring with the Greenland cryolite in octahedral crystals.
Ram  The male of the sheep and allied animals. In some parts of England a ram is called a tup.
Ram  Aries, the sign of the zodiac which the sun enters about the 21st of March.
Ram  The constellation Aries, which does not now, as formerly, occupy the sign of the same name.
Ram  An engine of war used for butting or battering.
Ram  In ancient warfare, a long beam suspended by slings in a framework, and used for battering the walls of cities; a battering-ram.
Ram  A heavy steel or iron beak attached to the prow of a steam war vessel for piercing or cutting down the vessel of an enemy; also, a vessel carrying such a beak.
Ram  A hydraulic ram. See under Hydraulic.
Ram  The weight which strikes the blow, in a pile driver, steam hammer, stamp mill, or the like.
Ram  The plunger of a hydraulic press.
Rammed  of Ram
Ramming  of Ram
Ram  To butt or strike against; to drive a ram against or through; to thrust or drive with violence; to force in; to drive together; to cram; as, to ram an enemy's vessel; to ram piles, cartridges, etc.
Ram  To fill or compact by pounding or driving.
Ramadan  The ninth Mohammedan month.
Ramadan  The great annual fast of the Mohammedans, kept during daylight through the ninth month.
Ramage  Boughs or branches.
Ramage  Warbling of birds in trees.
Ramage  Wild; untamed.
Ramagious  Wild; not tame.
Ramal  Of or pertaining to a ramus, or branch; rameal.
Ramayana  The more ancient of the two great epic poems in Sanskrit. The hero and heroine are Rama and his wife Sita.
Ramberge  Formerly, a kind of large war galley.
Rambled  of Ramble
Rambling  of Ramble
Ramble  To walk, ride, or sail, from place to place, without any determinate object in view; to roam carelessly or irregularly; to rove; to wander; as, to ramble about the city; to ramble over the world.
Ramble  To talk or write in a discursive, aimless way.
Ramble  To extend or grow at random.
Ramble  A going or moving from place to place without any determinate business or object; an excursion or stroll merely for recreation.
Ramble  A bed of shale over the seam.
Rambler  One who rambles; a rover; a wanderer.
Rambling  Roving; wandering; discursive; as, a rambling fellow, talk, or building.
Ramblingly  In a rambling manner.
Rambooze  A beverage made of wine, ale (or milk), sugar, etc.
Rambutan  A Malayan fruit produced by the tree Nephelium lappaceum, and closely related to the litchi nut. It is bright red, oval in shape, covered with coarse hairs (whence the name), and contains a pleasant acid pulp. Called also ramboostan.
Rameal  Same as Ramal.
Ramean  A Ramist.
Ramed  Having the frames, stem, and sternpost adjusted; -- said of a ship on the stocks.
Ramee  See Ramie.
Ramekin  See Ramequin.
Rament  A scraping; a shaving.
Rament  Ramenta.
Ramenta  Thin brownish chaffy scales upon the leaves or young shoots of some plants, especially upon the petioles and leaves of ferns.
Ramentaceous  Covered with ramenta.
Rameous  Ramal.
Ramequin  A mixture of cheese, eggs, etc., formed in a mold, or served on bread.
Ramie  The grass-cloth plant (B/hmeria nivea); also, its fiber, which is very fine and exceedingly strong; -- called also China grass, and rhea. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass.
Ramification  The process of branching, or the development of branches or offshoots from a stem; also, the mode of their arrangement.
Ramification  A small branch or offshoot proceeding from a main stock or channel; as, the ramifications of an artery, vein, or nerve.
Ramification  A division into principal and subordinate classes, heads, or departments; also, one of the subordinate parts; as, the ramifications of a subject or scheme.
Ramification  The production of branchlike figures.
Ramiflorous  Flowering on the branches.
Ramiform  Having the form of a branch.
Ramified  of Ramify
Ramifying  of Ramify
Ramify  To divide into branches or subdivisions; as, to ramify an art, subject, scheme.
Ramify  To shoot, or divide, into branches or subdivisions, as the stem of a plant.
Ramify  To be divided or subdivided, as a main subject.
Ramigerous  Bearing branches; branched.
Ramiparous  Producing branches; ramigerous.
Ramist  A follower of Pierre Rame, better known as Ramus, a celebrated French scholar, who was professor of rhetoric and philosophy at Paris in the reign of Henry II., and opposed the Aristotelians.
Ramline  A line used to get a straight middle line, as on a spar, or from stem to stern in building a vessel.
Rammel  Refuse matter.
Rammer  One who, or that which, rams or drives.
Rammer  An instrument for driving anything with force; as, a rammer for driving stones or piles, or for beating the earth to more solidity
Rammer  A rod for forcing down the charge of a gun; a ramrod
Rammer  An implement for pounding the sand of a mold to render it compact.
Rammish  Like a ram; hence, rank; lascivious.
Rammishness  The quality of being rammish.
Rammy  Like a ram; rammish.
Ramollescence  A softening or mollifying.
Ramoon  A small West Indian tree (Trophis Americana) of the Mulberry family, whose leaves and twigs are used as fodder for cattle.
Ramose  Branched, as the stem or root of a plant; having lateral divisions; consisting of, or having, branches; full of branches; ramifying; branching; branchy.
Ramous  Ramose.
Ramped  of Ramp
Ramping  of Ramp
Ramp  To spring; to leap; to bound; to rear; to prance; to become rampant; hence, to frolic; to romp.
Ramp  To move by leaps, or as by leaps; hence, to move swiftly or with violence.
Ramp  To climb, as a plant; to creep up.
Ramp  A leap; a spring; a hostile advance.
Ramp  A highwayman; a robber.
Ramp  A romping woman; a prostitute.
Ramp  Any sloping member, other than a purely constructional one, such as a continuous parapet to a staircase.
Ramp  A short bend, slope, or curve, where a hand rail or cap changes its direction.
Ramp  An inclined plane serving as a communication between different interior levels.
Rampacious  High-spirited; rampageous.
Rampage  Violent or riotous behavior; a state of excitement, passion, or debauchery; as, to be on the rampage.
Rampage  To leap or prance about, as an animal; to be violent; to rage.
Rampageous  Characterized by violence and passion; unruly; rampant.
Rampallian  A mean wretch.
Rampancy  The quality or state of being rampant; excessive action or development; exuberance; extravagance.
Rampant  Ramping; leaping; springing; rearing upon the hind legs; hence, raging; furious.
Rampant  Ascending; climbing; rank in growth; exuberant.
Rampant  Rising with fore paws in the air as if attacking; -- said of a beast of prey, especially a lion. The right fore leg and right hind leg should be raised higher than the left.
Rampantly  In a rampant manner.
Rampart  That which fortifies and defends from assault; that which secures safety; a defense or bulwark.
Rampart  A broad embankment of earth round a place, upon which the parapet is raised. It forms the substratum of every permanent fortification.
Ramparted  of Rampart
Ramparting  of Rampart
Rampart  To surround or protect with, or as with, a rampart or ramparts.
Rampe  The cuckoopint.
Rampier  See Rampart.
Rampion  A plant (Campanula Rapunculus) of the Bellflower family, with a tuberous esculent root; -- also called ramps.
Rampire  A rampart.
Rampire  To fortify with a rampire; to form into a rampire.
Rampler  A rambler.
Rampler  Roving; rambling.
Ramrod  The rod used in ramming home the charge in a muzzle-loading firearm.
Ramshackle  Loose; disjointed; falling to pieces; out of repair.
Ramshackle  To search or ransack; to rummage.
Ramson  A broad-leaved species of garlic (Allium ursinum), common in European gardens; -- called also buckram.
Ramsted  A yellow-flowered weed; -- so named from a Mr. Ramsted who introduced it into Pennsylvania. See Toad flax. Called also Ramsted weed.
Ramulose  Having many small branches, or ramuli.
Ramulous  Ramulose.
Ramuli  of Ramulus
Ramulus  A small branch, or branchlet, of corals, hydroids, and similar organisms.
Rami  of Ramus
Ramus  A branch; a projecting part or prominent process; a ramification.
Ramuscule  A small ramus, or branch.
Ran  imp. of Run.
Ran  Open robbery.
Ran  Yarns coiled on a spun-yarn winch.
Rana  A genus of anurous batrachians, including the common frogs.
Ranal  Having a general affinity to ranunculaceous plants.
Rance  A prop or shore.
Rance  A round between the legs of a chair.
Rancescent  Becoming rancid or sour.
Ranch  To wrench; to tear; to sprain; to injure by violent straining or contortion.
Ranch  A tract of land used for grazing and the rearing of horses, cattle, or sheep. See Rancho, 2.
Rancheros  of Ranchero
Ranchero  A herdsman; a peasant employed on a ranch or rancho.
Ranchero  The owner and occupant of a ranch or rancho.
Ranchmen  of Ranchman
Ranchman  An owner or occupant of, or laborer on, a ranch; a herdsman.
Ranchos  of Rancho
Rancho  A rude hut, as of posts, covered with branches or thatch, where herdsmen or farm laborers may live or lodge at night.
Rancho  A large grazing farm where horses and cattle are raised; -- distinguished from hacienda, a cultivated farm or plantation.
Rancid  Having a rank smell or taste, from chemical change or decomposition; musty; as, rancid oil or butter.
Rancidity  The quality or state of being rancid; a rancid scent or flavor, as of old oil.
Rancidly  In a rancid manner.
Rancidness  The quality of being rancid.
Rancor  The deepest malignity or spite; deep-seated enmity or malice; inveterate hatred.
Rancorous  Full of rancor; evincing, or caused by, rancor; deeply malignant; implacably spiteful or malicious; intensely virulent.
Rancorously  In a rancorous manner.
Rand  A border; edge; margin.
Rand  A long, fleshy piece, as of beef, cut from the flank or leg; a sort of steak.
Rand  A thin inner sole for a shoe; also, a leveling slip of leather applied to the sole before attaching the heel.
Rand  To rant; to storm.
Randall  The meadow fescue (Festuca elatior). See under Grass.
Randan  The product of a second sifting of meal; the finest part of the bran.
Randan  A boat propelled by three rowers with four oars, the middle rower pulling two.
Randing  The act or process of making and applying rands for shoes.
Randing  A kind of basket work used in gabions.
Random  Force; violence.
Random  A roving motion; course without definite direction; want of direction, rule, or method; hazard; chance; -- commonly used in the phrase at random, that is, without a settled point of direction; at hazard.
Random  Distance to which a missile is cast; range; reach; as, the random of a rifle ball.
Random  The direction of a rake-vein.
Random  Going at random or by chance; done or made at hazard, or without settled direction, aim, or purpose; hazarded without previous calculation; left to chance; haphazard; as, a random guess.
Randomly  In a random manner.
Randon  Random.
Randon  To go or stray at random.
Ranedeer  See Reindeer.
Ranee  Same as Rani.
Ranforce  See Re/nforce.
Rang  imp. of Ring, v. t. & i.
Ranged  of Range
Ranging  of Range
Range  To set in a row, or in rows; to place in a regular line or lines, or in ranks; to dispose in the proper order; to rank; as, to range soldiers in line.
Range  To place (as a single individual) among others in a line, row, or order, as in the ranks of an army; -- usually, reflexively and figuratively, (in the sense) to espouse a cause, to join a party, etc.
Range  To separate into parts; to sift.
Range  To dispose in a classified or in systematic order; to arrange regularly; as, to range plants and animals in genera and species.
Range  To rove over or through; as, to range the fields.
Range  To sail or pass in a direction parallel to or near; as, to range the coast.
Range  To be native to, or to live in; to frequent.
Range  To rove at large; to wander without restraint or direction; to roam.
Range  To have range; to change or differ within limits; to be capable of projecting, or to admit of being projected, especially as to horizontal distance; as, the temperature ranged through seventy degrees Fahrenheit; the gun ranges three miles; the shot ranged four miles.
Range  To be placed in order; to be ranked; to admit of arrangement or classification; to rank.
Range  To have a certain direction; to correspond in direction; to be or keep in a corresponding line; to trend or run; -- often followed by with; as, the front of a house ranges with the street; to range along the coast.
Range  To be native to, or live in, a certain district or region; as, the peba ranges from Texas to Paraguay.
Range  A series of things in a line; a row; a rank; as, a range of buildings; a range of mountains.
Range  An aggregate of individuals in one rank or degree; an order; a class.
Range  The step of a ladder; a rung.
Range  A kitchen grate.
Range  An extended cooking apparatus of cast iron, set in brickwork, and affording conveniences for various ways of cooking; also, a kind of cooking stove.
Range  A bolting sieve to sift meal.
Range  A wandering or roving; a going to and fro; an excursion; a ramble; an expedition.
Range  That which may be ranged over; place or room for excursion; especially, a region of country in which cattle or sheep may wander and pasture.
Range  Extent or space taken in by anything excursive; compass or extent of excursion; reach; scope; discursive power; as, the range of one's voice, or authority.
Range  The region within which a plant or animal naturally lives.
Range  The horizontal distance to which a shot or other projectile is carried.
Range  Sometimes, less properly, the trajectory of a shot or projectile.
Range  A place where shooting, as with cannons or rifles, is practiced.
Range  In the public land system of the United States, a row or line of townships lying between two successive meridian lines six miles apart.
Range  See Range of cable, below.
Rangement  Arrangement.
Ranger  One who ranges; a rover; sometimes, one who ranges for plunder; a roving robber.
Ranger  That which separates or arranges; specifically, a sieve.
Ranger  A dog that beats the ground in search of game.
Ranger  One of a body of mounted troops, formerly armed with short muskets, who range over the country, and often fight on foot.
Ranger  The keeper of a public park or forest; formerly, a sworn officer of a forest, appointed by the king's letters patent, whose business was to walk through the forest, recover beasts that had strayed beyond its limits, watch the deer, present trespasses to the next court held for the forest, etc.
Rangership  The office of the keeper of a forest or park.
Rangle  To range about in an irregular manner.
Rani  A queen or princess; the wife of a rajah.
Ranine  Of or pertaining to the frogs and toads.
Ranine  Pertaining to, or designating, a swelling under the tongue; also, pertaining to the region where the swelling occurs; -- applied especially to branches of the lingual artery and lingual vein.
Rank  Luxuriant in growth; of vigorous growth; exuberant; grown to immoderate height; as, rank grass; rank weeds.
Rank  Raised to a high degree; violent; extreme; gross; utter; as, rank heresy.
Rank  Causing vigorous growth; producing luxuriantly; very rich and fertile; as, rank land.
Rank  Strong-scented; rancid; musty; as, oil of a rank smell; rank-smelling rue.
Rank  Strong to the taste.
Rank  Inflamed with venereal appetite.
Rank  Rankly; stoutly; violently.
Rank  A row or line; a range; an order; a tier; as, a rank of osiers.
Rank  A line of soldiers ranged side by side; -- opposed to file. See 1st File, 1 (a).
Rank  Grade of official standing, as in the army, navy, or nobility; as, the rank of general; the rank of admiral.
Rank  An aggregate of individuals classed together; a permanent social class; an order; a division; as, ranks and orders of men; the highest and the lowest ranks of men, or of other intelligent beings.
Rank  Degree of dignity, eminence, or excellence; position in civil or social life; station; degree; grade; as, a writer of the first rank; a lawyer of high rank.
Rank  Elevated grade or standing; high degree; high social position; distinction; eminence; as, a man of rank.
Ranked  of Rank
Ranking  of Rank
Rank  To place abreast, or in a line.
Rank  To range in a particular class, order, or division; to class; also, to dispose methodically; to place in suitable classes or order; to classify.
Rank  To take rank of; to outrank.
Rank  To be ranged; to be set or disposed, as in a particular degree, class, order, or division.
Rank  To have a certain grade or degree of elevation in the orders of civil or military life; to have a certain degree of esteem or consideration; as, he ranks with the first class of poets; he ranks high in public estimation.
Ranker  One who ranks, or disposes in ranks; one who arranges.
Rankled  of Rankle
Rankling  of Rankle
Rankle  To become, or be, rank; to grow rank or strong; to be inflamed; to fester; -- used literally and figuratively.
Rankle  To produce a festering or inflamed effect; to cause a sore; -- used literally and figuratively; as, a splinter rankles in the flesh; the words rankled in his bosom.
Rankle  To cause to fester; to make sore; to inflame.
Rankly  With rank or vigorous growth; luxuriantly; hence, coarsely; grossly; as, weeds grow rankly.
Rankness  The condition or quality of being rank.
Rannel  A prostitute.
Ranny  The erd shrew.
Ransacked  of Ransack
Ransacking  of Ransack
Ransack  To search thoroughly; to search every place or part of; as, to ransack a house.
Ransack  To plunder; to pillage completely.
Ransack  To violate; to ravish; to defiour.
Ransack  To make a thorough search.
Ransack  The act of ransacking, or state of being ransacked; pillage.
Ransom  The release of a captive, or of captured property, by payment of a consideration; redemption; as, prisoners hopeless of ransom.
Ransom  The money or price paid for the redemption of a prisoner, or for goods captured by an enemy; payment for freedom from restraint, penalty, or forfeit.
Ransom  A sum paid for the pardon of some great offense and the discharge of the offender; also, a fine paid in lieu of corporal punishment.
Ransomed  of Ransom
Ransoming  of Ransom
Ransom  To redeem from captivity, servitude, punishment, or forfeit, by paying a price; to buy out of servitude or penalty; to rescue; to deliver; as, to ransom prisoners from an enemy.
Ransom  To exact a ransom for, or a payment on.
Ransomable  Such as can be ransomed.
Ransomer  One who ransoms or redeems.
Ransomless  Incapable of being ransomed; without ransom.
Ranted  of Rant
Ranting  of Rant
Rant  To rave in violent, high-sounding, or extravagant language, without dignity of thought; to be noisy, boisterous, and bombastic in talk or declamation; as, a ranting preacher.
Rant  High-sounding language, without importance or dignity of thought; boisterous, empty declamation; bombast; as, the rant of fanatics.
Ranter  A noisy talker; a raving declaimer.
Ranter  One of a religious sect which sprung up in 1645; -- called also Seekers. See Seeker.
Ranter  One of the Primitive Methodists, who seceded from the Wesleyan Methodists on the ground of their deficiency in fervor and zeal; -- so called in contempt.
Ranterism  The practice or tenets of the Ranters.
Rantingly  In a ranting manner.
Rantipole  A wild, romping young person.
Rantipole  Wild; roving; rakish.
Rantipole  To act like a rantipole.
Rantism  Ranterism.
Ranty  Wild; noisy; boisterous.
Ranula  A cyst formed under the tongue by obstruction of the duct of the submaxillary gland.
Ranunculaceous  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Ranunculaceae), of which the buttercup is the type, and which includes also the virgin's bower, the monkshood, larkspur, anemone, meadow rue, and peony.
Ranunculuses  of Ranunculus
Ranunculi  of Ranunculus
Ranunculus  A genus of herbs, mostly with yellow flowers, including crowfoot, buttercups, and the cultivated ranunculi (R. Asiaticus, R. aconitifolius, etc.) in which the flowers are double and of various colors.
Ranz  The name for numerous simple, but very irregular, melodies of the Swiss mountaineers, blown on a long tube called the Alpine horn, and sometimes sung.
Rap  A lay or skein containing 120 yards of yarn.
Rapped  of Rap
Rapping  of Rap
Rap  To strike with a quick, sharp blow; to knock; as, to rap on the door.
Rap  To strike with a quick blow; to knock on.
Rap  To free (a pattern) in a mold by light blows on the pattern, so as to facilitate its removal.
Rap  A quick, smart blow; a knock.
Rapped  of Rap
Rapt  of Rap
Rapping  of Rap
Rap  To snatch away; to seize and hurry off.
Rap  To hasten.
Rap  To seize and bear away, as the mind or thoughts; to transport out of one's self; to affect with ecstasy or rapture; as, rapt into admiration.
Rap  To exchange; to truck.
Rap  A popular name for any of the tokens that passed current for a half-penny in Ireland in the early part of the eighteenth century; any coin of trifling value.
Rapaces  Same as Accipitres.
Rapacious  Given to plunder; disposed or accustomed to seize by violence; seizing by force.
Rapacious  Accustomed to seize food; subsisting on prey, or animals seized by violence; as, a tiger is a rapacious animal; a rapacious bird.
Rapacious  Avaricious; grasping; extortionate; also, greedy; ravenous; voracious; as, rapacious usurers; a rapacious appetite.
Rapacity  The quality of being rapacious; rapaciousness; ravenousness; as, the rapacity of pirates; the rapacity of wolves.
Rapacity  The act or practice of extorting or exacting by oppressive injustice; exorbitant greediness of gain.
Raparee  See Rapparee.
Rape  Fruit, as grapes, plucked from the cluster.
Rape  The refuse stems and skins of grapes or raisins from which the must has been expressed in wine making.
Rape  A filter containing the above refuse, used in clarifying and perfecting malt, vinegar, etc.
Rape  The act of seizing and carrying away by force; violent seizure; robbery.
Rape  Sexual connection with a woman without her consent. See Age of consent, under Consent, n.
Rape  That which is snatched away.
Rape  Movement, as in snatching; haste; hurry.
Rape  To commit rape upon; to ravish.
Rape  To rob; to pillage.
Rape  One of six divisions of the county of Sussex, England, intermediate between a hundred and a shire.
Rape  A name given to a variety or to varieties of a plant of the turnip kind, grown for seeds and herbage. The seeds are used for the production of rape oil, and to a limited extent for the food of cage birds.
Rapeful  Violent.
Rapeful  Given to the commission of rape.
Rapfully  Violently.
Raphaelesque  Like Raphael's works; in Raphael's manner of painting.
Raphaelism  The principles of painting introduced by Raphael, the Italian painter.
Raphaelite  One who advocates or adopts the principles of Raphaelism.
Raphany  A convulsive disease, attended with ravenous hunger, not uncommon in Sweden and Germany. It was so called because supposed to be caused by eating corn with which seeds of jointed charlock (Raphanus raphanistrum) had been mixed, but the condition is now known to be a form of ergotism.
Raphe  A line, ridge, furrow, or band of fibers, especially in the median line; as, the raphe of the tongue.
Raphe  Same as Rhaphe.
Raphides  See Rhaphides.
Rapid  Very swift or quick; moving with celerity; fast; as, a rapid stream; a rapid flight; a rapid motion.
Rapid  Advancing with haste or speed; speedy in progression; in quick sequence; as, rapid growth; rapid improvement; rapid recurrence; rapid succession.
Rapid  Quick in execution; as, a rapid penman.
Rapid  The part of a river where the current moves with great swiftness, but without actual waterfall or cascade; -- usually in the plural; as, the Lachine rapids in the St. Lawrence.
Rapidity  The quality or state of being rapid; swiftness; celerity; velocity; as, the rapidity of a current; rapidity of speech; rapidity of growth or improvement.
Rapidly  In a rapid manner.
Rapidness  Quality of being rapid; rapidity.
Rapier  A straight sword, with a narrow and finely pointed blade, used only for thrusting.
Rapiered  Wearing a rapier.
Rapilli  Lapilli.
Rapine  The act of plundering; the seizing and carrying away of things by force; spoliation; pillage; plunder.
Rapine  Ravishment; rape.
Rapine  To plunder.
Rapinous  Given to rapine.
Rappage  The enlargement of a mold caused by rapping the pattern.
Rapparee  A wild Irish plunderer, esp. one of the 17th century; -- so called from his carrying a half-pike, called a rapary.
Rapped  imp. & p. p. of Rap, to strike.
Rapped  imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away.
Rappee  A pungent kind of snuff made from the darker and ranker kinds of tobacco leaves.
Rappel  The beat of the drum to call soldiers to arms.
Rapper  One who, or that which, raps or knocks; specifically, the knocker of a door.
Rapper  A forcible oath or lie.
Rapport  Relation; proportion; conformity; correspondence; accord.
Rapscallion  A rascal; a good-for-nothing fellow.
Rapt  imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away.
Rapt  Snatched away; hurried away or along.
Rapt  Transported with love, admiration, delight, etc.; enraptured.
Rapt  Wholly absorbed or engrossed, as in work or meditation.
Rapt  An ecstasy; a trance.
Rapt  Rapidity.
Rapt  To transport or ravish.
Rapt  To carry away by force.
Rapter  A raptor.
Raptor  A ravisher; a plunderer.
Raptores  Same as Accipitres. Called also Raptatores.
Raptorial  Rapacious; living upon prey; -- said especially of certain birds.
Raptorial  Adapted for seizing prey; -- said of the legs, claws, etc., of insects, birds, and other animals.
Raptorial  Of or pertaining to the Raptores. See Illust. (f) of Aves.
Raptorious  Raptorial.
Rapture  A seizing by violence; a hurrying along; rapidity with violence.
Rapture  The state or condition of being rapt, or carried away from one's self by agreeable excitement; violence of a pleasing passion; extreme joy or pleasure; ecstasy.
Rapture  A spasm; a fit; a syncope; delirium.
Raptured  of Rapture
Rapturing  of Rapture
Rapture  To transport with excitement; to enrapture.
Rapturist  An enthusiast.
Rapturize  To put, or be put, in a state of rapture.
Rapturous  Ecstatic; transporting; ravishing; feeling, expressing, or manifesting rapture; as, rapturous joy, pleasure, or delight; rapturous applause.
Rapturously  In a rapturous manner.
Rare  Early.
Rare  Nearly raw; partially cooked; not thoroughly cooked; underdone; as, rare beef or mutton.
Rare  Not frequent; seldom met with or occurring; unusual; as, a rare event.
Rare  Of an uncommon nature; unusually excellent; valuable to a degree seldom found.
Rare  Thinly scattered; dispersed.
Rare  Characterized by wide separation of parts; of loose texture; not thick or dense; thin; as, a rare atmosphere at high elevations.
Rarebit  A dainty morsel; a Welsh rabbit. See Welsh rabbit, under Rabbit.
Raree-show  A show carried about in a box; a peep show.
Rarefaction  The act or process of rarefying; the state of being rarefied; -- opposed to condensation; as, the rarefaction of air.
Rarefiable  Capable of being rarefied.
Rarefied  of Rarefy
Rarefying  of Rarefy
Rarefy  To make rare, thin, porous, or less dense; to expand or enlarge without adding any new portion of matter to; -- opposed to condense.
Rarefy  To become less dense; to become thin and porous.
Rarely  In a rare manner or degree; seldom; not often; as, things rarely seen.
Rarely  Finely; excellently; with rare skill. See 3d Rare, 2.
Rareness  The state or quality of being rare.
Rareripe  Early ripe; ripe before others, or before the usual season.
Rareripe  An early ripening fruit, especially a kind of freestone peach.
Rarification  See Rarefaction.
Rarities  of Rarity
Rarity  The quality or state of being rare; rareness; thinness; as, the rarity (contrasted with the density) of gases.
Rarity  That which is rare; an uncommon thing; a thing valued for its scarcity.
Ras  See 2d Reis.
Rasante  Sweeping; grazing; -- applied to a style of fortification in which the command of the works over each other, and over the country, is kept very low, in order that the shot may more effectually sweep or graze the ground before them.
Rascal  One of the rabble; a low, common sort of person or creature; collectively, the rabble; the common herd; also, a lean, ill-conditioned beast, esp. a deer.
Rascal  A mean, trickish fellow; a base, dishonest person; a rogue; a scoundrel; a trickster.
Rascal  Of or pertaining to the common herd or common people; low; mean; base.
Rascaldom  State of being a rascal; rascality; domain of rascals; rascals, collectively.
Rascaless  A female rascal.
Rascalities  of Rascality
Rascality  The quality or state of being rascally, or a rascal; mean trickishness or dishonesty; base fraud.
Rascality  The poorer and lower classes of people.
Rascallion  A low, mean wretch.
Rascally  Like a rascal; trickish or dishonest; base; worthless; -- often in humorous disparagement, without implication of dishonesty.
Rased  of Rase
Rasing  of Rase
Rase  To rub along the surface of; to graze.
Rase  To rub or scratch out; to erase.
Rase  To level with the ground; to overthrow; to destroy; to raze.
Rase  To be leveled with the ground; to fall; to suffer overthrow.
Rase  A scratching out, or erasure.
Rase  A slight wound; a scratch.
Rase  A way of measuring in which the commodity measured was made even with the top of the measuring vessel by rasing, or striking off, all that was above it.
Rash  To pull off or pluck violently.
Rash  To slash; to hack; to cut; to slice.
Rash  A fine eruption or efflorescence on the body, with little or no elevation.
Rash  An inferior kind of silk, or mixture of silk and worsted.
Rash  Sudden in action; quick; hasty.
Rash  Requiring sudden action; pressing; urgent.
Rash  Esp., overhasty in counsel or action; precipitate; resolving or entering on a project or measure without due deliberation and caution; opposed to prudent; said of persons; as, a rash statesman or commander.
Rash  Uttered or undertaken with too much haste or too little reflection; as, rash words; rash measures.
Rash  So dry as to fall out of the ear with handling, as corn.
Rash  To prepare with haste.
Rasher  A thin slice of bacon.
Rasher  A California rockfish (Sebastichthys miniatus).
Rashful  Rash; hasty; precipitate.
Rashling  A rash person.
Rashly  In a rash manner; with precipitation.
Rashness  The quality or state of being rash.
Raskolnik  One of the separatists or dissenters from the established or Greek church in Russia.
Rasores  An order of birds; the Gallinae.
Rasorial  Of or pertaining to the Rasores, or gallinaceous birds, as the peacock, domestic fowl, partridge, quail, and the like.
Rasour  Razor.
Rasped  of Rasp
Rasping  of Rasp
Rasp  To rub or file with a rasp; to rub or grate with a rough file; as, to rasp wood to make it smooth; to rasp bones to powder.
Rasp  Hence, figuratively: To grate harshly upon; to offend by coarse or rough treatment or language; as, some sounds rasp the ear; his insults rasped my temper.
Rasp  A coarse file, on which the cutting prominences are distinct points raised by the oblique stroke of a sharp punch, instead of lines raised by a chisel, as on the true file.
Rasp  The raspberry.
Raspatorium  See Raspatory.
Raspatory  A surgeon's rasp.
Raspberry  The thimble-shaped fruit of the Rubus Idaeus and other similar brambles; as, the black, the red, and the white raspberry.
Raspberry  The shrub bearing this fruit.
Rasper  One who, or that which, rasps; a scraper.
Raspis  The raspberry.
Raspy  Like a rasp, or the sound made by a rasp; grating.
Rasse  A carnivore (Viverricula Mallaccensis) allied to the civet but smaller, native of China and the East Indies. It furnishes a perfume resembling that of the civet, which is highly prized by the Javanese. Called also Malacca weasel, and lesser civet.
Rasure  The act of rasing, scraping, or erasing; erasure; obliteration.
Rasure  A mark by which a letter, word, or any part of a writing or print, is erased, effaced, or obliterated; an erasure.
Rat  One of several species of small rodents of the genus Mus and allied genera, larger than mice, that infest houses, stores, and ships, especially the Norway, or brown, rat (M. decumanus), the black rat (M. rattus), and the roof rat (M. Alexandrinus). These were introduced into America from the Old World.
Rat  A round and tapering mass of hair, or similar material, used by women to support the puffs and rolls of their natural hair.
Rat  One who deserts his party or associates; hence, in the trades, one who works for lower wages than those prescribed by a trades union.
Ratted  of Rat
Ratting  of Rat
Rat  In English politics, to desert one's party from interested motives; to forsake one's associates for one's own advantage; in the trades, to work for less wages, or on other conditions, than those established by a trades union.
Rat  To catch or kill rats.
Rata  A New Zealand forest tree (Metrosideros robusta), also, its hard dark red wood, used by the Maoris for paddles and war clubs.
Ratability  The quality or state of being ratable.
Ratable  Capable of being rated, or set at a certain value.
Ratable  Liable to, or subjected by law to, taxation; as, ratable estate.
Ratable  Made at a proportionate rate; as, ratable payments.
Ratafia  A spirituous liquor flavored with the kernels of cherries, apricots, peaches, or other fruit, spiced, and sweetened with sugar; -- a term applied to the liqueurs called noyau, cura/ao, etc.
Ratan  See Rattan.
Ratany  Same as Rhatany.
Rataplan  The iterative sound of beating a drum, or of a galloping horse.
Ratch  Same as Rotche.
salt  Sulphate of magnesia having cathartic qualities; -- originally prepared by boiling down the mineral waters at Epsom, England, -- whence the name; afterwards prepared from sea water; but now from certain minerals, as from siliceous hydrate of magnesia.
Saadh  See Sadh.
Saan  Same as Bushmen.
Sabadilla  A Mexican liliaceous plant (Schoenocaulon officinale); also, its seeds, which contain the alkaloid veratrine. It was formerly used in medicine as an emetic and purgative.
Sabaean  Same as Sabian.
Sabaeanism  Same as Sabianism.
Sabaeism  Alt. of Sabaism
Sabaism  See Sabianism.
Sabal  A genus of palm trees including the palmetto of the Southern United States.
Sabaoth  Armies; hosts.
Sabaoth  Incorrectly, the Sabbath.
Sabbat  In mediaeval demonology, the nocturnal assembly in which demons and sorcerers were thought to celebrate their orgies.
Sabbatarian  One who regards and keeps the seventh day of the week as holy, agreeably to the letter of the fourth commandment in the Decalogue.
Sabbatarian  A strict observer of the Sabbath.
Sabbatarian  Of or pertaining to the Sabbath, or the tenets of Sabbatarians.
Sabbatarianism  The tenets of Sabbatarians.
Sabbath  A season or day of rest; one day in seven appointed for rest or worship, the observance of which was enjoined upon the Jews in the Decalogue, and has been continued by the Christian church with a transference of the day observed from the last to the first day of the week, which is called also Lord's Day.
Sabbath  The seventh year, observed among the Israelites as one of rest and festival.
Sabbath  Fig.: A time of rest or repose; intermission of pain, effort, sorrow, or the like.
Sabbathless  Without Sabbath, or intermission of labor; hence, without respite or rest.
Sabbatic  Alt. of Sabbatical
Sabbatical  Of or pertaining to the Sabbath; resembling the Sabbath; enjoying or bringing an intermission of labor.
Sabbatism  Intermission of labor, as upon the Sabbath; rest.
Sabbaton  A round-toed, armed covering for the feet, worn during a part of the sixteenth century in both military and civil dress.
Sabean  Same as Sabian.
Sabeism  Same as Sabianism.
Sabella  A genus of tubicolous annelids having a circle of plumose gills around the head.
Sabellian  Pertaining to the doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.
Sabellian  A follower of Sabellius, a presbyter of Ptolemais in the third century, who maintained that there is but one person in the Godhead, and that the Son and Holy Spirit are only different powers, operations, or offices of the one God the Father.
Sabellianism  The doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.
Sabelloid  Like, or related to, the genus Sabella.
Saber  Alt. of Sabre
Sabre  A sword with a broad and heavy blade, thick at the back, and usually more or less curved like a scimiter; a cavalry sword.
Sabered  of Sabre
Sabred  of Sabre
Sabering  of Sabre
Sabring  of Sabre
Saber  Alt. of Sabre
Sabre  To strike, cut, or kill with a saber; to cut down, as with a saber.
Saberbill  Alt. of Sabrebill
Sabrebill  The curlew.
Sabian  Of or pertaining to Saba in Arabia, celebrated for producing aromatic plants.
Sabian  Relating to the religion of Saba, or to the worship of the heavenly bodies.
Sabian  An adherent of the Sabian religion; a worshiper of the heavenly bodies.
Sabianism  The doctrine of the Sabians; the Sabian religion; that species of idolatry which consists in worshiping the sun, moon, and stars; heliolatry.
Sabicu  The very hard wood of a leguminous West Indian tree (Lysiloma Sabicu), valued for shipbuilding.
Sabine  Of or pertaining to the ancient Sabines, a people of Italy.
Sabine  One of the Sabine people.
Sabine  See Savin.
Sable  A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela zibellina) native of the northern latitudes of Europe, Asia, and America, -- noted for its fine, soft, and valuable fur.
Sable  The fur of the sable.
Sable  A mourning garment; a funeral robe; -- generally in the plural.
Sable  The tincture black; -- represented by vertical and horizontal lines crossing each other.
Sable  Of the color of the sable's fur; dark; black; -- used chiefly in poetry.
Sabled  of Sable
Sabling  of Sable
Sable  To render sable or dark; to drape darkly or in black.
Sabot  A kind of wooden shoe worn by the peasantry in France, Belgium, Sweden, and some other European countries.
Sabot  A thick, circular disk of wood, to which the cartridge bag and projectile are attached, in fixed ammunition for cannon; also, a piece of soft metal attached to a projectile to take the groove of the rifling.
Sabotiere  A kind of freezer for ices.
Sabre  See Saber.
Sabretasche  A leather case or pocket worn by cavalry at the left side, suspended from the sword belt.
Sabrina  A variety of applique work for quilts, table covers, etc.
Sabulose  Growing in sandy places.
Sabulosity  The quality of being sabulous; sandiness; grittiness.
Sabulous  Sandy; gritty.
Sac  See Sacs.
Sac  The privilege formerly enjoyed by the lord of a manor, of holding courts, trying causes, and imposing fines.
Sac  See 2d Sack.
Sac  A cavity, bag, or receptacle, usually containing fluid, and either closed, or opening into another cavity to the exterior; a sack.
Sacalait  A kind of fresh-water bass; the crappie.
Sacar  See Saker.
Saccade  A sudden, violent check of a horse by drawing or twitching the reins on a sudden and with one pull.
Saccate  Having the form of a sack or pouch; furnished with a sack or pouch, as a petal.
Saccate  Of or pertaining to the Saccata, a suborder of ctenophores having two pouches into which the long tentacles can be retracted.
Saccharate  A salt of saccharic acid.
Saccharate  In a wider sense, a compound of saccharose, or any similar carbohydrate, with such bases as the oxides of calcium, barium, or lead; a sucrate.
Saccharic  Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, saccharine substances; specifically, designating an acid obtained, as a white amorphous gummy mass, by the oxidation of mannite, glucose, sucrose, etc.
Sacchariferous  Producing sugar; as, sacchariferous canes.
Saccharified  of Saccharify
Saccharifying  of Saccharify
Saccharify  To convert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.
Saccharilla  A kind of muslin.
Saccharimeter  An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of saccharine matter in any solution, as the juice of a plant, or brewers' and distillers' worts.
Saccharimetrical  Of or pertaining to saccharimetry; obtained by saccharimetry.
Saccharimetry  The act, process or method of determining the amount and kind of sugar present in sirup, molasses, and the like, especially by the employment of polarizing apparatus.
Saccharin  A bitter white crystalline substance obtained from the saccharinates and regarded as the lactone of saccharinic acid; -- so called because formerly supposed to be isomeric with cane sugar (saccharose).
Saccharinate  A salt of saccharinic acid.
Saccharinate  A salt of saccharine.
Saccharine  Of or pertaining to sugar; having the qualities of sugar; producing sugar; sweet; as, a saccharine taste; saccharine matter.
Saccharine  A trade name for benzoic sulphinide.
Saccharinic  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharin; specifically, designating a complex acid not known in the free state but well known in its salts, which are obtained by boiling dextrose and levulose (invert sugar) with milk of lime.
Saccharized  of Saccharize
Saccharizing  of Saccharize
Saccharize  To convert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.
Saccharoid  Alt. of Saccharoidal
Saccharoidal  Resembling sugar, as in taste, appearance, consistency, or composition; as, saccharoidal limestone.
Saccharometer  A saccharimeter.
Saccharomyces  A genus of budding fungi, the various species of which have the power, to a greater or less extent, or splitting up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid. They are the active agents in producing fermentation of wine, beer, etc. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the yeast of sedimentary beer. Also called Torula.
Saccharomycetes  A family of fungi consisting of the one genus Saccharomyces.
Saccharonate  A salt of saccharonic acid.
Saccharone  A white crystalline substance, C6H8O6, obtained by the oxidation of saccharin, and regarded as the lactone of saccharonic acid.
Saccharone  An oily liquid, C6H10O2, obtained by the reduction of saccharin.
Saccharonic  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharone; specifically, designating an unstable acid which is obtained from saccharone (a) by hydration, and forms a well-known series of salts.
Saccharose  Cane sugar; sucrose; also, in general, any one of the group of which saccharose, or sucrose proper, is the type. See Sucrose.
Saccharous  Saccharine.
Saccharum  A genus of tall tropical grasses including the sugar cane.
Saccholactate  A salt of saccholactic acid; -- formerly called also saccholate.
Saccholactic  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called mucic acid; saccholic.
Saccholic  Saccholactic.
Sacchulmate  A salt of sacchulmic acid.
Sacchulmic  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a dark amorphous substance by the long-continued boiling of sucrose with very dilute sulphuric acid. It resembles humic acid.
Sacchulmin  An amorphous huminlike substance resembling sacchulmic acid, and produced together with it.
Sacciferous  Bearing a sac.
Sacciform  Having the general form of a sac.
Saccoglossa  Same as Pellibranchiata.
Saccular  Like a sac; sacciform.
Sacculated  Furnished with little sacs.
Saccule  A little sac; specifically, the sacculus of the ear.
Sacculo-cochlear  Pertaining to the sacculus and cochlea of the ear.
Sacculo-utricular  Pertaining to the sacculus and utriculus of the ear.
Sacculi  of Sacculus
Sacculus  A little sac; esp., a part of the membranous labyrinth of the ear.
Sacci  of Saccus
Saccus  A sac.
Sacella  of Sacellum
Sacellum  An unroofed space consecrated to a divinity.
Sacellum  A small monumental chapel in a church.
Sacerdotal  Of or pertaining to priests, or to the order of priests; relating to the priesthood; priesty; as, sacerdotal dignity; sacerdotal functions.
Sacerdotalism  The system, style, spirit, or character, of a priesthood, or sacerdotal order; devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order.
Sacerdotally  In a sacerdotal manner.
Sachel  A small bag.
Sachem  A chief of a tribe of the American Indians; a sagamore.
Sachemdom  The government or jurisdiction of a sachem.
Sachemship  Office or condition of a sachem.
Sachet  A scent bag, or perfume cushion, to be laid among handkerchiefs, garments, etc., to perfume them.
Saciety  Satiety.
Sack  A name formerly given to various dry Spanish wines.
Sack  A bag for holding and carrying goods of any kind; a receptacle made of some kind of pliable material, as cloth, leather, and the like; a large pouch.
Sack  A measure of varying capacity, according to local usage and the substance. The American sack of salt is 215 pounds; the sack of wheat, two bushels.
Sack  Originally, a loosely hanging garment for women, worn like a cloak about the shoulders, and serving as a decorative appendage to the gown; now, an outer garment with sleeves, worn by women; as, a dressing sack.
Sack  A sack coat; a kind of coat worn by men, and extending from top to bottom without a cross seam.
Sack  See 2d Sac, 2.
Sack  Bed.
Sack  To put in a sack; to bag; as, to sack corn.
Sack  To bear or carry in a sack upon the back or the shoulders.
Sack  The pillage or plunder, as of a town or city; the storm and plunder of a town; devastation; ravage.
Sacked  of Sack
Sacking  of Sack
Sack  To plunder or pillage, as a town or city; to devastate; to ravage.
Sackage  The act of taking by storm and pillaging; sack.
Sackbut  A brass wind instrument, like a bass trumpet, so contrived that it can be lengthened or shortened according to the tone required; -- said to be the same as the trombone.
Sackcloth  Linen or cotton cloth such as sacks are made of; coarse cloth; anciently, a cloth or garment worn in mourning, distress, mortification, or penitence.
Sackclothed  Clothed in sackcloth.
Sacker  One who sacks; one who takes part in the storm and pillage of a town.
Sackfuls  of Sackful
Sackful  As much as a sack will hold.
Sackful  Bent on plunder.
Sacking  Stout, coarse cloth of which sacks, bags, etc., are made.
Sackless  Quiet; peaceable; harmless; innocent.
Sack-winged  Having a peculiar pouch developed near the front edge of the wing; -- said of certain bats of the genus Saccopteryx.
Sacque  Same as 2d Sack, 3.
Sacral  Of or pertaining to the sacrum; in the region of the sacrum.
Sacrament  The oath of allegiance taken by Roman soldiers; hence, a sacred ceremony used to impress an obligation; a solemn oath-taking; an oath.
Sacrament  The pledge or token of an oath or solemn covenant; a sacred thing; a mystery.
Sacrament  One of the solemn religious ordinances enjoined by Christ, the head of the Christian church, to be observed by his followers; hence, specifically, the eucharist; the Lord's Supper.
Sacrament  To bind by an oath.
Sacramental  Of or pertaining to a sacrament or the sacraments; of the nature of a sacrament; sacredly or solemnly binding; as, sacramental rites or elements.
Sacramental  Bound by a sacrament.
Sacramental  That which relates to a sacrament.
Sacramentalism  The doctrine and use of sacraments; attachment of excessive importance to sacraments.
Sacramentalist  One who holds the doctrine of the real objective presence of Christ's body and blood in the holy eucharist.
Sacramentally  In a sacramental manner.
Sacramentarian  A name given in the sixteenth century to those German reformers who rejected both the Roman and the Lutheran doctrine of the holy eucharist.
Sacramentarian  One who holds extreme opinions regarding the efficacy of sacraments.
Sacramentarian  Of or pertaining a sacrament, or to the sacramentals; sacramental.
Sacramentarian  Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.
Sacramentary  Of or pertaining to a sacrament or the sacraments; sacramental.
Sacramentary  Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.
Sacramentary  An ancient book of the Roman Catholic Church, written by Pope Gelasius, and revised, corrected, and abridged by St. Gregory, in which were contained the rites for Mass, the sacraments, the dedication of churches, and other ceremonies. There are several ancient books of the same kind in France and Germany.
Sacramentary  Same as Sacramentarian, n., 1.
Sacramentize  To administer the sacraments.
Sacrarium  A sort of family chapel in the houses of the Romans, devoted to a special divinity.
Sacrarium  The adytum of a temple.
Sacrarium  In a Christian church, the sanctuary.
Sacrate  To consecrate.
Sacration  Consecration.
Sacre  See Saker.
Sacre  To consecrate; to make sacred.
Sacred  Set apart by solemn religious ceremony; especially, in a good sense, made holy; set apart to religious use; consecrated; not profane or common; as, a sacred place; a sacred day; sacred service.
Sacred  Relating to religion, or to the services of religion; not secular; religious; as, sacred history.
Sacred  Designated or exalted by a divine sanction; possessing the highest title to obedience, honor, reverence, or veneration; entitled to extreme reverence; venerable.
Sacred  Hence, not to be profaned or violated; inviolable.
Sacred  Consecrated; dedicated; devoted; -- with to.
Sacred  Solemnly devoted, in a bad sense, as to evil, vengeance, curse, or the like; accursed; baleful.
Sacrific  Alt. of Sacrifical
Sacrifical  Employed in sacrifice.
Sacrificable  Capable of being offered in sacrifice.
Sacrificant  One who offers a sacrifice.
Sacrificator  A sacrificer; one who offers a sacrifice.
Sacrificatory  Offering sacrifice.
Sacrifice  The offering of anything to God, or to a god; consecratory rite.
Sacrifice  Anything consecrated and offered to God, or to a divinity; an immolated victim, or an offering of any kind, laid upon an altar, or otherwise presented in the way of religious thanksgiving, atonement, or conciliation.
Sacrifice  Destruction or surrender of anything for the sake of something else; devotion of some desirable object in behalf of a higher object, or to a claim deemed more pressing; hence, also, the thing so devoted or given up; as, the sacrifice of interest to pleasure, or of pleasure to interest.
Sacrifice  A sale at a price less than the cost or the actual value.
Sacrificed  of Sacrifice
Sacrificing  of Sacrifice
Sacrifice  To make an offering of; to consecrate or present to a divinity by way of expiation or propitiation, or as a token acknowledgment or thanksgiving; to immolate on the altar of God, in order to atone for sin, to procure favor, or to express thankfulness; as, to sacrifice an ox or a sheep.
Sacrifice  Hence, to destroy, surrender, or suffer to be lost, for the sake of obtaining something; to give up in favor of a higher or more imperative object or duty; to devote, with loss or suffering.
Sacrifice  To destroy; to kill.
Sacrifice  To sell at a price less than the cost or the actual value.
Sacrifice  To make offerings to God, or to a deity, of things consumed on the altar; to offer sacrifice.
Sacrificer  One who sacrifices.
Sacrificial  Of or pertaining to sacrifice or sacrifices; consisting in sacrifice; performing sacrifice.
Sacrilege  The sin or crime of violating or profaning sacred things; the alienating to laymen, or to common purposes, what has been appropriated or consecrated to religious persons or uses.
Sacrilegious  Violating sacred things; polluted with sacrilege; involving sacrilege; profane; impious.
Sacrilegist  One guilty of sacrilege.
Sacring  a. & n. from Sacre.
Sacrist  A sacristan; also, a person retained in a cathedral to copy out music for the choir, and take care of the books.
Sacristan  An officer of the church who has the care of the utensils or movables, and of the church in general; a sexton.
Sacristies  of Sacristy
Sacristy  An apartment in a church where the sacred utensils, vestments, etc., are kept; a vestry.
Sacro-  A combining form denoting connection with, or relation to, the sacrum, as in sacro-coccygeal, sacro-iliac, sacrosciatic.
Sacrosanct  Sacred; inviolable.
Sacrosciatic  Of or pertaining to both the sacrum and the hip; as, the sacrosciatic foramina formed by the sacrosciatic ligaments which connect the sacrum and the hip bone.
Sacrovertebral  Of or pertaining to the sacrum and that part of the vertebral column immediately anterior to it; as, the sacrovertebral angle.
sacra  of Sacrum
Sacrum  That part of the vertebral column which is directly connected with, or forms a part of, the pelvis.
Sacs  A tribe of Indians, which, together with the Foxes, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin.
Sad  Sated; satisfied; weary; tired.
Sad  Heavy; weighty; ponderous; close; hard.
Sad  Dull; grave; dark; somber; -- said of colors.
Sad  Serious; grave; sober; steadfast; not light or frivolous.
Sad  Affected with grief or unhappiness; cast down with affliction; downcast; gloomy; mournful.
Sad  Afflictive; calamitous; causing sorrow; as, a sad accident; a sad misfortune.
Sad  Hence, bad; naughty; troublesome; wicked.
Sad  To make sorrowful; to sadden.
Sadda  A work in the Persian tongue, being a summary of the Zend-Avesta, or sacred books.
Saddened  of Sadden
Saddening  of Sadden
Sadden  To make sad.
Sadden  To render heavy or cohesive.
Sadden  To make dull- or sad-colored, as cloth.
Sadden  To make grave or serious; to make melancholy or sorrowful.
Sadden  To become, or be made, sad.
Sadder  Same as Sadda.
Saddle  A seat for a rider, -- usually made of leather, padded to span comfortably a horse's back, furnished with stirrups for the rider's feet to rest in, and fastened in place with a girth; also, a seat for the rider on a bicycle or tricycle.
Saddle  A padded part of a harness which is worn on a horse's back, being fastened in place with a girth. It serves various purposes, as to keep the breeching in place, carry guides for the reins, etc.
Saddle  A piece of meat containing a part of the backbone of an animal with the ribs on each side; as, a saddle of mutton, of venison, etc.
Saddle  A block of wood, usually fastened to some spar, and shaped to receive the end of another spar.
Saddle  A part, as a flange, which is hollowed out to fit upon a convex surface and serve as a means of attachment or support.
Saddle  The clitellus of an earthworm.
Saddle  The threshold of a door, when a separate piece from the floor or landing; -- so called because it spans and covers the joint between two floors.
Saddled  of Saddle
Saddling  of Saddle
Saddle  To put a saddle upon; to equip (a beast) for riding.
Saddle  Hence: To fix as a charge or burden upon; to load; to encumber; as, to saddle a town with the expense of bridges and highways.
Saddleback  Same as Saddle-backed.
Saddleback  Anything saddle-backed; esp., a hill or ridge having a concave outline at the top.
Saddleback  The harp seal.
Saddleback  The great blackbacked gull (Larus marinus).
Saddleback  The larva of a bombycid moth (Empretia stimulea) which has a large, bright green, saddle-shaped patch of color on the back.
Saddle-backed  Having the outline of the upper part concave like the seat of a saddle.
Saddle-backed  Having a low back and high neck, as a horse.
Saddlebags  Bags, usually of leather, united by straps or a band, formerly much used by horseback riders to carry small articles, one bag hanging on each side.
Saddlebow  The bow or arch in the front part of a saddle, or the pieces which form the front.
Saddlecloth  A cloth under a saddle, and extending out behind; a housing.
Saddled  Having a broad patch of color across the back, like a saddle; saddle-backed.
Saddler  One who makes saddles.
Saddler  A harp seal.
Saddlery  The materials for making saddles and harnesses; the articles usually offered for sale in a saddler's shop.
Saddlery  The trade or employment of a saddler.
Saddle-shaped  Shaped like a saddle.
Saddle-shaped  Bent down at the sides so as to give the upper part a rounded form.
Saddle-shaped  Bent on each side of a mountain or ridge, without being broken at top; -- said of strata.
Saddletree  The frame of a saddle.
Sadducaic  Pertaining to, or like, the Sadducees; as, Sadducaic reasonings.
Sadducee  One of a sect among the ancient Jews, who denied the resurrection, a future state, and the existence of angels.
Sadduceeism  Alt. of Sadducism
Sadducism  The tenets of the Sadducees.
Sadducized  of Sadducize
Sadducizing  of Sadducize
Sadducize  To adopt the principles of the Sadducees.
Sadh  A member of a monotheistic sect of Hindoos. Sadhs resemble the Quakers in many respects.
Sadiron  An iron for smoothing clothes; a flatiron.
Sadly  Wearily; heavily; firmly.
Sadly  Seriously; soberly; gravely.
Sadly  Grievously; deeply; sorrowfully; miserably.
Sadness  Heaviness; firmness.
Sadness  Seriousness; gravity; discretion.
Sadness  Quality of being sad, or unhappy; gloominess; sorrowfulness; dejection.
Sadr  A plant of the genus Ziziphus (Z. lotus); -- so called by the Arabs of Barbary, who use its berries for food. See Lotus (b).
Saengerfest  A festival of singers; a German singing festival.
Safe  Free from harm, injury, or risk; untouched or unthreatened by danger or injury; unharmed; unhurt; secure; whole; as, safe from disease; safe from storms; safe from foes.
Safe  Conferring safety; securing from harm; not exposing to danger; confining securely; to be relied upon; not dangerous; as, a safe harbor; a safe bridge, etc.
Safe  Incapable of doing harm; no longer dangerous; in secure care or custody; as, the prisoner is safe.
Safe  A place for keeping things in safety.
Safe  A strong and fireproof receptacle (as a movable chest of steel, etc., or a closet or vault of brickwork) for containing money, valuable papers, or the like.
Safe  A ventilated or refrigerated chest or closet for securing provisions from noxious animals or insects.
Safe  To render safe; to make right.
Safe-conduct  That which gives a safe passage
Safe-conduct  a convoy or guard to protect a person in an enemy's country or a foreign country
Safe-conduct  a writing, pass, or warrant of security, given to a person to enable him to travel with safety.
Safe-conduct  To conduct safely; to give safe-conduct to.
Safeguard  One who, or that which, defends or protects; defense; protection.
Safeguard  A convoy or guard to protect a traveler or property.
Safeguard  A pass; a passport; a safe-conduct.
Safeguard  To guard; to protect.
Safe-keeping  The act of keeping or preserving in safety from injury or from escape; care; custody.
Safely  In a safe manner; danger, injury, loss, or evil consequences.
Safeness  The quality or state of being safe; freedom from hazard, danger, harm, or loss; safety; security; as the safeness of an experiment, of a journey, or of a possession.
Safe-pledge  A surety for the appearance of a person at a given time.
Safety  The condition or state of being safe; freedom from danger or hazard; exemption from hurt, injury, or loss.
Safety  Freedom from whatever exposes one to danger or from liability to cause danger or harm; safeness; hence, the quality of making safe or secure, or of giving confidence, justifying trust, insuring against harm or loss, etc.
Safety  Preservation from escape; close custody.
Safety  Same as Safety touchdown, below.
Safflow  The safflower.
Safflower  An annual composite plant (Carthamus tinctorius), the flowers of which are used as a dyestuff and in making rouge; bastard, or false, saffron.
Safflower  The dried flowers of the Carthamus tinctorius.
Safflower  A dyestuff from these flowers. See Safranin (b).
Saffron  A bulbous iridaceous plant (Crocus sativus) having blue flowers with large yellow stigmas. See Crocus.
Saffron  The aromatic, pungent, dried stigmas, usually with part of the stile, of the Crocus sativus. Saffron is used in cookery, and in coloring confectionery, liquors, varnishes, etc., and was formerly much used in medicine.
Saffron  An orange or deep yellow color, like that of the stigmas of the Crocus sativus.
Saffron  Having the color of the stigmas of saffron flowers; deep orange-yellow; as, a saffron face; a saffron streamer.
Saffron  To give color and flavor to, as by means of saffron; to spice.
Saffrony  Having a color somewhat like saffron; yellowish.
Safranin  An orange-red dyestuff extracted from the saffron.
Safranin  A red dyestuff extracted from the safflower, and formerly used in dyeing wool, silk, and cotton pink and scarlet; -- called also Spanish red, China lake, and carthamin.
Safranin  An orange-red dyestuff prepared from certain nitro compounds of creosol, and used as a substitute for the safflower dye.
Safranine  An orange-red nitrogenous dyestuff produced artificially by oxidizing certain aniline derivatives, and used in dyeing silk and wool; also, any one of the series of which safranine proper is the type.
Sagged  of Sag
Sagging  of Sag
Sag  To sink, in the middle, by its weight or under applied pressure, below a horizontal line or plane; as, a line or cable supported by its ends sags, though tightly drawn; the floor of a room sags; hence, to lean, give way, or settle from a vertical position; as, a building may sag one way or another; a door sags on its hinges.
Sag  Fig.: To lose firmness or elasticity; to sink; to droop; to flag; to bend; to yield, as the mind or spirits, under the pressure of care, trouble, doubt, or the like; to be unsettled or unbalanced.
Sag  To loiter in walking; to idle along; to drag or droop heavily.
Sag  To cause to bend or give way; to load.
Sag  State of sinking or bending; sagging.
Sagas  of Saga
Saga  A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical or religious tale of olden time.
Sagacious  Of quick sense perceptions; keen-scented; skilled in following a trail.
Sagacious  Hence, of quick intellectual perceptions; of keen penetration and judgment; discerning and judicious; knowing; far-sighted; shrewd; sage; wise; as, a sagacious man; a sagacious remark.
Sagacity  The quality of being sagacious; quickness or acuteness of sense perceptions; keenness of discernment or penetration with soundness of judgment; shrewdness.
Sagamore  The head of a tribe among the American Indians; a chief; -- generally used as synonymous with sachem, but some writters distinguished between them, making the sachem a chief of the first rank, and a sagamore one of the second rank.
Sagamore  A juice used in medicine.
Sagapen  Sagapenum.
Sagapenum  A fetid gum resin obtained from a species of Ferula. It has been used in hysteria, etc., but is now seldom met with.
Sagathy  A mixed woven fabric of silk and cotton, or silk and wool; sayette; also, a light woolen fabric.
Sage  A suffruticose labiate plant (Salvia officinalis) with grayish green foliage, much used in flavoring meats, etc. The name is often extended to the whole genus, of which many species are cultivated for ornament, as the scarlet sage, and Mexican red and blue sage.
Sage  The sagebrush.
Sage  Having nice discernment and powers of judging; prudent; grave; sagacious.
Sage  Proceeding from wisdom; well judged; shrewd; well adapted to the purpose.
Sage  Grave; serious; solemn.
Sage  A wise man; a man of gravity and wisdom; especially, a man venerable for years, and of sound judgment and prudence; a grave philosopher.
Sagebrush  A low irregular shrub (Artemisia tridentata), of the order Compositae, covering vast tracts of the dry alkaline regions of the American plains; -- called also sagebush, and wild sage.
Sagely  In a sage manner; wisely.
Sagene  A Russian measure of length equal to about seven English feet.
Sageness  The quality or state of being sage; wisdom; sagacity; prudence; gravity.
Sagenite  Acicular rutile occurring in reticulated forms imbedded in quartz.
Sagenitic  Resembling sagenite; -- applied to quartz when containing acicular crystals of other minerals, most commonly rutile, also tourmaline, actinolite, and the like.
Sagger  A pot or case of fire clay, in which fine stoneware is inclosed while baking in the kiln; a seggar.
Sagger  The clay of which such pots or cases are made.
Sagging  A bending or sinking between the ends of a thing, in consequence of its own, or an imposed, weight; an arching downward in the middle, as of a ship after straining. Cf. Hogging.
Saginate  To make fat; to pamper.
Sagination  The act of fattening or pampering.
Sagitta  A small constellation north of Aquila; the Arrow.
Sagitta  The keystone of an arch.
Sagitta  The distance from a point in a curve to the chord; also, the versed sine of an arc; -- so called from its resemblance to an arrow resting on the bow and string.
Sagitta  The larger of the two otoliths, or ear bones, found in most fishes.
Sagitta  A genus of transparent, free-swimming marine worms having lateral and caudal fins, and capable of swimming rapidly. It is the type of the class Chaetognatha.
Sagittal  Of or pertaining to an arrow; resembling an arrow; furnished with an arrowlike appendage.
Sagittal  Of or pertaining to the sagittal suture; in the region of the sagittal suture; rabdoidal; as, the sagittal furrow, or groove, on the inner surface of the roof of the skull.
Sagittal  In the mesial plane; mesial; as, a sagittal section of an animal.
Sagittarius  The ninth of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters about November 22, marked thus [/] in almanacs; the Archer.
Sagittarius  A zodiacal constellation, represented on maps and globes as a centaur shooting an arrow.
Sagittary  A centaur; a fabulous being, half man, half horse, armed with a bow and quiver.
Sagittary  The Arsenal in Venice; -- so called from having a figure of an archer over the door.
Sagittary  Pertaining to, or resembling, an arrow.
Sagittate  Shaped like an arrowhead; triangular, with the two basal angles prolonged downward.
Sagittated  Sagittal; sagittate.
Sagittocyst  A defensive cell containing a minute rodlike structure which may be expelled. Such cells are found in certain Turbellaria.
Sago  A dry granulated starch imported from the East Indies, much used for making puddings and as an article of diet for the sick; also, as starch, for stiffening textile fabrics. It is prepared from the stems of several East Indian and Malayan palm trees, but chiefly from the Metroxylon Sagu; also from several cycadaceous plants (Cycas revoluta, Zamia integrifolia, etc.).
Sagoin  A marmoset; -- called also sagouin.
Saga  of Sagum
Sagum  The military cloak of the Roman soldiers.
Sagus  A genus of palms from which sago is obtained.
Sagy  Full of sage; seasoned with sage.
Sahib  Alt. of Saheb
Saheb  A respectful title or appellation given to Europeans of rank.
Sahibah  A lady; mistress.
Sahidic  Same as Thebaic.
Sahlite  See Salite.
Sahui  A marmoset.
Sai  See Capuchin, 3 (a).
Saibling  A European mountain trout (Salvelinus alpinus); -- called also Bavarian charr.
Saic  A kind of ketch very common in the Levant, which has neither topgallant sail nor mizzen topsail.
Said  imp. & p. p. of Say.
Said  Before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style.
Saiga  An antelope (Saiga Tartarica) native of the plains of Siberia and Eastern Russia. The male has erect annulated horns, and tufts of long hair beneath the eyes and ears.
Saikyr  Same as Saker.
Sail  An extent of canvas or other fabric by means of which the wind is made serviceable as a power for propelling vessels through the water.
Sail  Anything resembling a sail, or regarded as a sail.
Sail  A wing; a van.
Sail  The extended surface of the arm of a windmill.
Sail  A sailing vessel; a vessel of any kind; a craft.
Sail  A passage by a sailing vessel; a journey or excursion upon the water.
Sailed  of Sail
Sailing  of Sail
Sail  To be impelled or driven forward by the action of wind upon sails, as a ship on water; to be impelled on a body of water by the action of steam or other power.
Sail  To move through or on the water; to swim, as a fish or a water fowl.
Sail  To be conveyed in a vessel on water; to pass by water; as, they sailed from London to Canton.
Sail  To set sail; to begin a voyage.
Sail  To move smoothly through the air; to glide through the air without apparent exertion, as a bird.
Sail  To pass or move upon, as in a ship, by means of sails; hence, to move or journey upon (the water) by means of steam or other force.
Sail  To fly through; to glide or move smoothly through.
Sail  To direct or manage the motion of, as a vessel; as, to sail one's own ship.
Sailable  Capable of being sailed over; navigable; as, a sailable river.
Sailboat  A boat propelled by a sail or sails.
Sailcloth  Duck or canvas used in making sails.
Sailer  A sailor.
Sailer  A ship or other vessel; -- with qualifying words descriptive of speed or manner of sailing; as, a heavy sailer; a fast sailer.
Sailfish  The banner fish, or spikefish (Histiophorus.)
Sailfish  The basking, or liver, shark.
Sailfish  The quillback.
Sailing  The act of one who, or that which, sails; the motion of a vessel on water, impelled by wind or steam; the act of starting on a voyage.
Sailing  The art of managing a vessel; seamanship; navigation; as, globular sailing; oblique sailing.
Sailless  Destitute of sails.
Sailmaker  One whose occupation is to make or repair sails.
Sailor  One who follows the business of navigating ships or other vessels; one who understands the practical management of ships; one of the crew of a vessel; a mariner; a common seaman.
Saily  Like a sail.
Saim  Lard; grease.
Saimir  The squirrel monkey.
Sain  Said.
Sain  To sanctify; to bless so as to protect from evil influence.
Sainfoin  A leguminous plant (Onobrychis sativa) cultivated for fodder.
Sainfoin  A kind of tick trefoil (Desmodium Canadense).
Saint  A person sanctified; a holy or godly person; one eminent for piety and virtue; any true Christian, as being redeemed and consecrated to God.
Saint  One of the blessed in heaven.
Saint  One canonized by the church.
Sainted  of Saint
Sainting  of Saint
Saint  To make a saint of; to enroll among the saints by an offical act, as of the pope; to canonize; to give the title or reputation of a saint to (some one).
Saint  To act or live as a saint.
Saintdom  The state or character of a saint.
Sainted  Consecrated; sacred; holy; pious.
Sainted  Entered into heaven; -- a euphemism for dead.
Saintess  A female saint.
Sainthood  The state of being a saint; the condition of a saint.
Sainthood  The order, or united body, of saints; saints, considered collectively.
Saintish  Somewhat saintlike; -- used ironically.
Saintism  The character or quality of saints; also, hypocritical pretense of holiness.
Saintlike  Resembling a saint; suiting a saint; becoming a saint; saintly.
Saintliness  Quality of being saintly.
Saintly  Like a saint; becoming a holy person.
Saintologist  One who writes the lives of saints.
Saintship  The character or qualities of a saint.
Saint-Simonian  A follower of the Count de St. Simon, who died in 1825, and who maintained that the principle of property held in common, and the just division of the fruits of common labor among the members of society, are the true remedy for the social evils which exist.
Saint-Simonianism  The principles, doctrines, or practice of the Saint-Simonians; -- called also Saint- Simonism.
Saith  3d pers. sing. pres. of Say.
Saithe  The pollock, or coalfish; -- called also sillock.
Saiva  One of an important religious sect in India which regards Siva with peculiar veneration.
Saivism  The worship of Siva.
Sajene  Same as Sagene.
Sajou  Same as Sapajou.
Sake  Final cause; end; purpose of obtaining; cause; motive; reason; interest; concern; account; regard or respect; -- used chiefly in such phrases as, for the sake of, for his sake, for man's sake, for mercy's sake, and the like; as, to commit crime for the sake of gain; to go abroad for the sake of one's health.
Saker  A falcon (Falco sacer) native of Southern Europe and Asia, closely resembling the lanner.
Saker  The peregrine falcon.
Saker  A small piece of artillery.
Sakeret  The male of the saker (a).
Saki  Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Pithecia. They have large ears, and a long hairy tail which is not prehensile.
Saki  The alcoholic drink of Japan. It is made from rice.
Sakti  The divine energy, personified as the wife of a deity (Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, etc.); the female principle.
Sal  An East Indian timber tree (Shorea robusta), much used for building purposes. It is of a light brown color, close-grained, heavy, and durable.
Sal  Salt.
Salaam  Same as Salam.
Salaam  To make or perform a salam.
Salability  The quality or condition of being salable; salableness.
Salable  Capable of being sold; fit to be sold; finding a ready market.
Salacious  Having a propensity to venery; lustful; lecherous.
Salacity  Strong propensity to venery; lust; lecherousness.
Salad  A preparation of vegetables, as lettuce, celery, water cress, onions, etc., usually dressed with salt, vinegar, oil, and spice, and eaten for giving a relish to other food; as, lettuce salad; tomato salad, etc.
Salad  A dish composed of chopped meat or fish, esp. chicken or lobster, mixed with lettuce or other vegetables, and seasoned with oil, vinegar, mustard, and other condiments; as, chicken salad; lobster salad.
Salade  A helmet. See Sallet.
Salading  Vegetables for salad.
Salaeratus  See Saleratus.
Salagane  The esculent swallow. See under Esculent.
Salal-berry  The edible fruit of the Gaultheria Shallon, an ericaceous shrub found from California northwards. The berries are about the size of a common grape and of a dark purple color.
Salam  A salutation or compliment of ceremony in the east by word or act; an obeisance, performed by bowing very low and placing the right palm on the forehead.
Salamander  Any one of numerous species of Urodela, belonging to Salamandra, Amblystoma, Plethodon, and various allied genera, especially those that are more or less terrestrial in their habits.
Salamander  The pouched gopher (Geomys tuza) of the Southern United States.
Salamander  A culinary utensil of metal with a plate or disk which is heated, and held over pastry, etc., to brown it.
Salamander  A large poker.
Salamander  Solidified material in a furnace hearth.
Salamandrina  A suborder of Urodela, comprising salamanders.
Salamandrine  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a salamander; enduring fire.
Salamandroid  Like or pertaining to the salamanders.
Salamandroidea  A division of Amphibia including the Salamanders and allied groups; the Urodela.
Salamstone  A kind of blue sapphire brought from Ceylon.
Salangana  The salagane.
Salaried  Receiving a salary; paid by a salary; having a salary attached; as, a salaried officer; a salaried office.
Salary  Saline
Salaries  of Salary
Salary  The recompense or consideration paid, or stipulated to be paid, to a person at regular intervals for services; fixed wages, as by the year, quarter, or month; stipend; hire.
Salaried  of Salary
Salarying  of Salary
Salary  To pay, or agree to pay, a salary to; to attach salary to; as, to salary a clerk; to salary a position.
Sale  See 1st Sallow.
Sale  The act of selling; the transfer of property, or a contract to transfer the ownership of property, from one person to another for a valuable consideration, or for a price in money.
Sale  Opportunity of selling; demand; market.
Sale  Public disposal to the highest bidder, or exposure of goods in market; auction.
Saleable  Alt. of Saleably
Saleably  See Salable, Salably, etc.
Saleb  See Salep.
Salebrosity  Roughness or ruggedness.
Salebrous  Rough; rugged.
Salep  The dried tubers of various species of Orchis, and Eulophia. It is used to make a nutritious beverage by treating the powdered preparation with hot water.
Saleratus  Aerated salt; a white crystalline substance having an alkaline taste and reaction, consisting of sodium bicarbonate (see under Sodium.) It is largely used in cooking, with sour milk (lactic acid) or cream of tartar as a substitute for yeast. It is also an ingredient of most baking powders, and is used in the preparation of effervescing drinks.
Salesmen  of Salesman
Salesman  One who sells anything; one whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.
Saleswomen  of Saleswoman
Saleswoman  A woman whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.
Salework  Work or things made for sale; hence, work done carelessly or slightingly.
Salian  Denoting a tribe of Franks who established themselves early in the fourth century on the river Sala [now Yssel]; Salic.
Salian  A Salian Frank.
Saliant  Same as Salient.
Saliaunce  Salience; onslaught.
Salic  Of or pertaining to the Salian Franks, or to the Salic law so called.
Salicaceous  Belonging or relating to the willow.
Salicin  A glucoside found in the bark and leaves of several species of willow (Salix) and poplar, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.
Salicyl  The hypothetical radical of salicylic acid and of certain related compounds.
Salicylal  A thin, fragrant, colorless oil, HO.C6H4.CHO, found in the flowers of meadow sweet (Spiraea), and also obtained by oxidation of salicin, saligenin, etc. It reddens on exposure. Called also salicylol, salicylic aldehyde, and formerly salicylous, / spiroylous, acid.
Salicylate  A salt of salicylic acid.
Salicylic  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid formerly obtained by fusing salicin with potassium hydroxide, and now made in large quantities from phenol (carbolic acid) by the action of carbon dioxide on heated sodium phenolate. It is a white crystalline substance. It is used as an antiseptic, and in its salts in the treatment of rheumatism. Called also hydroxybenzoic acid.
Salicylide  A white crystalline substance obtained by dehydration of salicylic acid.
Salicylite  A compound of salicylal; -- named after the analogy of a salt.
Salicylol  Same as Salicylal.
Salicylous  Pertaining to, or designating, a substance formerly called salicylous acid, and now salicylal.
Salience  The quality or condition of being salient; a leaping; a springing forward; an assaulting.
Salience  The quality or state of projecting, or being projected; projection; protrusion.
Saliency  Quality of being salient; hence, vigor.
Salient  Moving by leaps or springs; leaping; bounding; jumping.
Salient  Shooting out or up; springing; projecting.
Salient  Hence, figuratively, forcing itself on the attention; prominent; conspicuous; noticeable.
Salient  Projecting outwardly; as, a salient angle; -- opposed to reentering. See Illust. of Bastion.
Salient  Represented in a leaping position; as, a lion salient.
Salient  A salient angle or part; a projection.
Saliently  In a salient manner.
Saliferous  Producing, or impregnated with, salt.
Salifiable  Capable of neutralizing an acid to form a salt; -- said of bases; thus, ammonia is salifiable.
Salification  The act, process, or result of salifying; the state of being salified.
Salified  of Salify
Salifying  of Salify
Salify  To combine or impregnate with a salt.
Salify  To form a salt with; to convert into a salt; as, to salify a base or an acid.
Saligenin  A phenol alcohol obtained, by the decomposition of salicin, as a white crystalline substance; -- called also hydroxy-benzyl alcohol.
Saligot  The water chestnut (Trapa natans).
Salimeter  An instrument for measuring the amount of salt present in any given solution.
Salimetry  The art or process of measuring the amount of salt in a substance.
Salina  A salt marsh, or salt pond, inclosed from the sea.
Salina  Salt works.
Salina  The period in which the American Upper Silurian system, containing the brine-producing rocks of central New York, was formed. See the Chart of Geology.
Salination  The act of washing with salt water.
Saline  Consisting of salt, or containing salt; as, saline particles; saline substances; a saline cathartic.
Saline  Of the quality of salt; salty; as, a saline taste.
Saline  A salt spring; a place where salt water is collected in the earth.
Saline  A crude potash obtained from beet-root residues and other similar sources.
Saline  A metallic salt; esp., a salt of potassium, sodium, lithium, or magnesium, used in medicine.
Salineness  The quality or state of being salt; saltness.
Saliniferous  Same as Saliferous.
Saliniform  Having the form or the qualities of a salt, especially of common salt.
Salinity  Salineness.
Salinometer  A salimeter.
Salinous  Saline.
Salique  Salic.
Saliretin  A yellow amorphous resinoid substance obtained by the action of dilute acids on saligenin.
Salisburia  The ginkgo tree (Ginkgo biloba, or Salisburia adiantifolia).
Salite  To season with salt; to salt.
Salite  A massive lamellar variety of pyroxene, of a dingy green color.
Saliva  The secretion from the salivary glands.
Salival  Salivary.
Salivant  Producing salivation.
Salivant  That which produces salivation.
Salivary  Of or pertaining to saliva; producing or carrying saliva; as, the salivary ferment; the salivary glands; the salivary ducts, etc.
Salivated  of Salivate
Salivating  of Salivate
Salivate  To produce an abnormal flow of saliva in; to produce salivation or ptyalism in, as by the use of mercury.
Salivate  To produce saliva, esp. in excess.
Salivation  The act or process of salivating; an excessive secretion of saliva, often accompanied with soreness of the mouth and gums; ptyalism.
Salivous  Pertaining to saliva; of the nature of saliva.
Salices  of Salix
Salix  A genus of trees or shrubs including the willow, osier, and the like, growing usually in wet grounds.
Salix  A tree or shrub of any kind of willow.
Sallenders  An eruption on the hind leg of a horse.
Sallet  A light kind of helmet, with or without a visor, introduced during the 15th century.
Sallet  Alt. of Salleting
Salleting  Salad.
Salliance  Salience.
Sallow  The willow; willow twigs.
Sallow  A name given to certain species of willow, especially those which do not have flexible shoots, as Salix caprea, S. cinerea, etc.
Sallow  Having a yellowish color; of a pale, sickly color, tinged with yellow; as, a sallow skin.
Sallow  To tinge with sallowness.
Sallowish  Somewhat sallow.
Sallowness  The quality or condition of being sallow.
Sallied  of Sally
Sallying  of Sally
Sally  To leap or rush out; to burst forth; to issue suddenly; as a body of troops from a fortified place to attack besiegers; to make a sally.
Sallies  of Sally
Sally  A leaping forth; a darting; a spring.
Sally  A rushing or bursting forth; a quick issue; a sudden eruption; specifically, an issuing of troops from a place besieged to attack the besiegers; a sortie.
Sally  An excursion from the usual track; range; digression; deviation.
Sally  A flight of fancy, liveliness, wit, or the like; a flashing forth of a quick and active mind.
Sally  Transgression of the limits of soberness or steadiness; act of levity; wild gayety; frolic; escapade.
Sally  A tea cake slighty sweetened, and raised with yeast, baked in the form of biscuits or in a thin loaf, and eaten hot with butter.
Sallyman  The velella; -- called also saleeman.
Salm  Psalm.
Salmagundi  A mixture of chopped meat and pickled herring, with oil, vinegar, pepper, and onions.
Salmagundi  Hence, a mixture of various ingredients; an olio or medley; a potpourri; a miscellany.
Salmi  Same as Salmis.
Salmiac  Sal ammoniac. See under Sal.
Salmis  A ragout of partly roasted game stewed with sauce, wine, bread, and condiments suited to provoke appetite.
Salmons  of Salmon
Salmon  of Salmon
Salmon  Any one of several species of fishes of the genus Salmo and allied genera. The common salmon (Salmo salar) of Northern Europe and Eastern North America, and the California salmon, or quinnat, are the most important species. They are extensively preserved for food. See Quinnat.
Salmon  A reddish yellow or orange color, like the flesh of the salmon.
Salmon  Of a reddish yellow or orange color, like that of the flesh of the salmon.
Salmonet  A salmon of small size; a samlet.
Salmonoid  Like, or pertaining to, the Salmonidae, a family of fishes including the trout and salmon.
Salmonoid  Any fish of the family Salmonidae.
Salogen  A halogen.
Salol  A white crystalline substance consisting of phenol salicylate.
salometer  See Salimeter.
Salomtry  Salimetry.
Salon  An apartment for the reception of company; hence, in the plural, fashionable parties; circles of fashionable society.
Saloon  A spacious and elegant apartment for the reception of company or for works of art; a hall of reception, esp. a hall for public entertainments or amusements; a large room or parlor; as, the saloon of a steamboat.
Saloon  Popularly, a public room for specific uses; esp., a barroom or grogshop; as, a drinking saloon; an eating saloon; a dancing saloon.
Saloop  An aromatic drink prepared from sassafras bark and other ingredients, at one time much used in London.
Salp  Any species of Salpa, or of the family Salpidae.
Salpae  of Salpa
Salpas  of Salpa
Salpa  A genus of transparent, tubular, free-swimming oceanic tunicates found abundantly in all the warmer latitudes. See Illustration in Appendix.
Salpian  Alt. of Salpid
Salpid  A salpa.
Salpicon  Chopped meat, bread, etc., used to stuff legs of veal or other joints; stuffing; farce.
Salpingitis  Inflammation of the salpinx.
Salpinx  The Eustachian tube, or the Fallopian tube.
Salsafy  See Salsify.
Salsamentarious  Salt; salted; saline.
Salse  A mud volcano, the water of which is often impregnated with salts, whence the name.
Salsify  See Oyster plant (a), under Oyster.
Salso-acid  Having a taste compounded of saltness and acidity; both salt and acid.
Salsoda  See Sal soda, under Sal.
Salsola  A genus of plants including the glasswort. See Glasswort.
salsuginous  Growing in brackish places or in salt marshes.
Salt  The chloride of sodium, a substance used for seasoning food, for the preservation of meat, etc. It is found native in the earth, and is also produced, by evaporation and crystallization, from sea water and other water impregnated with saline particles.
Salt  Hence, flavor; taste; savor; smack; seasoning.
Salt  Hence, also, piquancy; wit; sense; as, Attic salt.
Salt  A dish for salt at table; a saltcellar.
Salt  A sailor; -- usually qualified by old.
Salt  The neutral compound formed by the union of an acid and a base; thus, sulphuric acid and iron form the salt sulphate of iron or green vitriol.
Salt  Fig.: That which preserves from corruption or error; that which purifies; a corrective; an antiseptic; also, an allowance or deduction; as, his statements must be taken with a grain of salt.
Salt  Any mineral salt used as an aperient or cathartic, especially Epsom salts, Rochelle salt, or Glauber's salt.
Salt  Marshes flooded by the tide.
Salt  Of or relating to salt; abounding in, or containing, salt; prepared or preserved with, or tasting of, salt; salted; as, salt beef; salt water.
Salt  Overflowed with, or growing in, salt water; as, a salt marsh; salt grass.
Salt  Fig.: Bitter; sharp; pungent.
Salt  Fig.: Salacious; lecherous; lustful.
Salted  of Salt
Salting  of Salt
Salt  To sprinkle, impregnate, or season with salt; to preserve with salt or in brine; to supply with salt; as, to salt fish, beef, or pork; to salt cattle.
Salt  To fill with salt between the timbers and planks, as a ship, for the preservation of the timber.
Salt  To deposit salt as a saline solution; as, the brine begins to salt.
Salt  The act of leaping or jumping; a leap.
Saltant  Leaping; jumping; dancing.
Saltant  In a leaping position; springing forward; -- applied especially to the squirrel, weasel, and rat, also to the cat, greyhound, monkey, etc.
Saltarella  See Saltarello.
Saltarello  A popular Italian dance in quick 3-4 or 6-8 time, running mostly in triplets, but with a hop step at the beginning of each measure. See Tarantella.
Saltate  To leap or dance.
Saltation  A leaping or jumping.
Saltation  Beating or palpitation; as, the saltation of the great artery.
Saltation  An abrupt and marked variation in the condition or appearance of a species; a sudden modification which may give rise to new races.
Saltatoria  A division of Orthoptera including grasshoppers, locusts, and crickets.
Saltatorial  Relating to leaping; saltatory; as, saltatorial exercises.
Saltatorial  Same as Saltatorious.
Saltatorial  Of or pertaining to the Saltatoria.
Saltatorious  Capable of leaping; formed for leaping; saltatory; as, a saltatorious insect or leg.
Saltatory  Leaping or dancing; having the power of, or used in, leaping or dancing.
Saltbush  An Australian plant (Atriplex nummularia) of the Goosefoot family.
Saltcat  A mixture of salt, coarse meal, lime, etc., attractive to pigeons.
Saltcellar  Formerly a large vessel, now a small vessel of glass or other material, used for holding salt on the table.
Salter  One who makes, sells, or applies salt; one who salts meat or fish.
Saltern  A building or place where salt is made by boiling or by evaporation; salt works.
Saltfoot  A large saltcellar formerly placed near the center of the table. The superior guests were seated above the saltfoot.
Salt-green  Sea-green in color.
Saltle  The European dab.
Saltier  See Saltire.
Saltigradae  A tribe of spiders including those which lie in wait and leap upon their prey; the leaping spiders.
Saltigrade  Having feet or legs formed for leaping.
Saltigrade  One of the Saltigradae, a tribe of spiders which leap to seize their prey.
Saltimbanco  A mountebank; a quack.
Salting  The act of sprinkling, impregnating, or furnishing, with salt.
Salting  A salt marsh.
Saltire  A St. Andrew's cross, or cross in the form of an X, -- one of the honorable ordinaries.
Saltirewise  In the manner of a saltire; -- said especially of the blazoning of a shield divided by two lines drawn in the direction of a bend and a bend sinister, and crossing at the center.
Saltish  Somewhat salt.
Saltless  Destitute of salt; insipid.
Saltly  With taste of salt; in a salt manner.
Saltmouth  A wide-mouthed bottle with glass stopper for holding chemicals, especially crystallized salts.
Saltness  The quality or state of being salt, or state of being salt, or impregnated with salt; salt taste; as, the saltness of sea water.
Saltpeter  Alt. of Saltpetre
Saltpetre  Potassium nitrate; niter; a white crystalline substance, KNO3, having a cooling saline taste, obtained by leaching from certain soils in which it is produced by the process of nitrification (see Nitrification, 2). It is a strong oxidizer, is the chief constituent of gunpowder, and is also used as an antiseptic in curing meat, and in medicine as a diuretic, diaphoretic, and refrigerant.
Saltpetrous  Pertaining to saltpeter, or partaking of its qualities; impregnated with saltpeter.
Salt  A popular name, esp. in the United States, for various cutaneous eruptions, particularly for those of eczema. See Eczema.
Saltwort  A name given to several plants which grow on the seashore, as the Batis maritima, and the glasswort. See Glasswort.
Salty  Somewhat salt; saltish.
Salubrious  Favorable to health; healthful; promoting health; as, salubrious air, water, or climate.
Salubrity  The quality of being salubrious; favorableness to the preservation of health; salubriousness; wholesomeness; healthfulness; as, the salubrity of the air, of a country, or a climate.
Salue  To salute.
Salutary  Wholesome; healthful; promoting health; as, salutary exercise.
Salutary  Promotive of, or contributing to, some beneficial purpose; beneficial; advantageous; as, a salutary design.
Salutation  The act of saluting, or paying respect or reverence, by the customary words or actions; the act of greeting, or expressing good will or courtesy; also, that which is uttered or done in saluting or greeting.
Salutatorian  The student who pronounces the salutatory oration at the annual Commencement or like exercises of a college, -- an honor commonly assigned to that member of the graduating class who ranks second in scholarship.
Salutatorily  By way of salutation.
Salutatory  Containing or expressing salutations; speaking a welcome; greeting; -- applied especially to the oration which introduces the exercises of the Commencements, or similar public exhibitions, in American colleges.
Salutatory  A place for saluting or greeting; a vestibule; a porch.
Salutatory  The salutatory oration.
Saluted  of Salute
Saluting  of Salute
Salute  To address, as with expressions of kind wishes and courtesy; to greet; to hail.
Salute  Hence, to give a sign of good will; to compliment by an act or ceremony, as a kiss, a bow, etc.
Salute  To honor, as some day, person, or nation, by a discharge of cannon or small arms, by dipping colors, by cheers, etc.
Salute  To promote the welfare and safety of; to benefit; to gratify.
Salute  The act of saluting, or expressing kind wishes or respect; salutation; greeting.
Salute  A sign, token, or ceremony, expressing good will, compliment, or respect, as a kiss, a bow, etc.
Salute  A token of respect or honor for some distinguished or official personage, for a foreign vessel or flag, or for some festival or event, as by presenting arms, by a discharge of cannon, volleys of small arms, dipping the colors or the topsails, etc.
Saluter  One who salutes.
Salutiferous  Bringing health; healthy; salutary; beneficial; as, salutiferous air.
Salutiferously  Salutarily.
Salvability  The quality or condition of being salvable; salvableness.
Salvable  Capable of being saved; admitting of salvation.
Salvage  The act of saving a vessel, goods, or life, from perils of the sea.
Salvage  The compensation allowed to persons who voluntarily assist in saving a ship or her cargo from peril.
Salvage  That part of the property that survives the peril and is saved.
Salvage  Savage.
Salvation  The act of saving; preservation or deliverance from destruction, danger, or great calamity.
Salvation  The redemption of man from the bondage of sin and liability to eternal death, and the conferring on him of everlasting happiness.
Salvation  Saving power; that which saves.
Salvationist  An evangelist, a member, or a recruit, of the Salvation Army.
Salvatory  A place where things are preserved; a repository.
Salve  Hail!
Salve  To say "Salve" to; to greet; to salute.
Salve  An adhesive composition or substance to be applied to wounds or sores; a healing ointment.
Salve  A soothing remedy or antidote.
Salved  of Salve
Salving  of Salve
Salve  To heal by applications or medicaments; to cure by remedial treatment; to apply salve to; as, to salve a wound.
Salve  To heal; to remedy; to cure; to make good; to soothe, as with an ointment, especially by some device, trick, or quibble; to gloss over.
Salve  To save, as a ship or goods, from the perils of the sea.
Salver  One who salves, or uses salve as a remedy; hence, a quacksalver, or quack.
Salver  A salvor.
Salver  A tray or waiter on which anything is presented.
Salver-shaped  Tubular, with a spreading border. See Hypocraterimorphous.
Salvia  A genus of plants including the sage. See Sage.
Salvific  Tending to save or secure safety.
Salvos  of Salvo
Salvo  An exception; a reservation; an excuse.
Salvo  A concentrated fire from pieces of artillery, as in endeavoring to make a break in a fortification; a volley.
Salvo  A salute paid by a simultaneous, or nearly simultaneous, firing of a number of cannon.
Salvor  One who assists in saving a ship or goods at sea, without being under special obligation to do so.
Sam  Together.
Samara  A dry, indehiscent, usually one-seeded, winged fruit, as that of the ash, maple, and elm; a key or key fruit.
Samare  See Simar.
Samaritan  Of or pertaining to Samaria, in Palestine.
Samaritan  A native or inhabitant of Samaria; also, the language of Samaria.
Samarium  A rare metallic element of doubtful identity.
Samaroid  Resembling a samara, or winged seed vessel.
Samarra  See Simar.
Samarskite  A rare mineral having a velvet-black color and submetallic luster. It is a niobate of uranium, iron, and the yttrium and cerium metals.
Sambo  A colloquial or humorous appellation for a negro; sometimes, the offspring of a black person and a mulatto; a zambo.
Samboo  Same as Sambur.
Sambucus  A genus of shrubs and trees; the elder.
Sambuke  An ancient stringed instrument used by the Greeks, the particular construction of which is unknown.
Sambur  An East Indian deer (Rusa Aristotelis) having a mane on its neck. Its antlers have but three prongs. Called also gerow. The name is applied to other species of the genus Rusa, as the Bornean sambur (R. equina).
Same  Not different or other; not another or others; identical; unchanged.
Same  Of like kind, species, sort, dimensions, or the like; not differing in character or in the quality or qualities compared; corresponding; not discordant; similar; like.
Same  Just mentioned, or just about to be mentioned.
Sameliness  Sameness, 2.
Sameness  The state of being the same; identity; absence of difference; near resemblance; correspondence; similarity; as, a sameness of person, of manner, of sound, of appearance, and the like.
Sameness  Hence, want of variety; tedious monotony.
Samette  See Samite.
Samian  Of or pertaining to the island of Samos.
Samian  A native or inhabitant of Samos.
Samiel  A hot and destructive wind that sometimes blows, in Turkey, from the desert. It is identical with the simoom of Arabia and the kamsin of Syria.
Samiot  Samian.
Samite  A species of silk stuff, or taffeta, generally interwoven with gold.
Samlet  The parr.
Sammier  A machine for pressing the water from skins in tanning.
Samoan  Of or pertaining to the Samoan Islands (formerly called Navigators' Islands) in the South Pacific Ocean, or their inhabitants.
Samoan  An inhabitant of the Samoan Islands.
Samovar  A metal urn used in Russia for making tea. It is filled with water, which is heated by charcoal placed in a pipe, with chimney attached, which passes through the urn.
Samoyedes  An ignorant and degraded Turanian tribe which occupies a portion of Northern Russia and a part of Siberia.
Samp  An article of food consisting of maize broken or bruised, which is cooked by boiling, and usually eaten with milk; coarse hominy.
Sampan  A Chinese boat from twelve to fifteen feet long, covered with a house, and sometimes used as a permanent habitation on the inland waters.
Samphire  A fleshy, suffrutescent, umbelliferous European plant (Crithmum maritimum). It grows among rocks and on cliffs along the seacoast, and is used for pickles.
Samphire  The species of glasswort (Salicornia herbacea); -- called in England marsh samphire.
Samphire  A seashore shrub (Borrichia arborescens) of the West Indies.
Sample  Example; pattern.
Sample  A part of anything presented for inspection, or shown as evidence of the quality of the whole; a specimen; as, goods are often purchased by samples.
Sample  To make or show something similar to; to match.
Sample  To take or to test a sample or samples of; as, to sample sugar, teas, wools, cloths.
Sampler  One who makes up samples for inspection; one who examines samples, or by samples; as, a wool sampler.
Sampler  A pattern; a specimen; especially, a collection of needlework patterns, as letters, borders, etc., to be used as samples, or to display the skill of the worker.
Samshoo  Alt. of Samshu
Samshu  A spirituous liquor distilled by the Chinese from the yeasty liquor in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure.
Samson  An Israelite of Bible record (see Judges xiii.), distinguished for his great strength; hence, a man of extraordinary physical strength.
Sanability  The quality or state of being sanable; sanableness; curableness.
Sanable  Capable of being healed or cured; susceptible of remedy.
Sanableness  The quality of being sanable.
Sanation  The act of healing or curing.
Sanative  Having the power to cure or heal; healing; tending to heal; sanatory.
Sanatorium  An establishment for the treatment of the sick; a resort for invalids. See Sanitarium.
Sanatory  Conducive to health; tending to cure; healing; curative; sanative.
Sanbenito  Anciently, a sackcloth coat worn by penitents on being reconciled to the church.
Sanbenito  A garnment or cap, or sometimes both, painted with flames, figures, etc., and worn by persons who had been examined by the Inquisition and were brought forth for punishment at the auto-da-fe.
Sance-bell  Alt. of Sancte bell
Sancte  See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus.
Sanctificate  To sanctify.
Sanctification  The act of sanctifying or making holy; the state of being sanctified or made holy;
Sanctification  the act of God's grace by which the affections of men are purified, or alienated from sin and the world, and exalted to a supreme love to God; also, the state of being thus purified or sanctified.
Sanctification  The act of consecrating, or of setting apart for a sacred purpose; consecration.
Sanctified  Made holy; also, made to have the air of sanctity; sanctimonious.
Sanctifier  One who sanctifies, or makes holy; specifically, the Holy Spirit.
Sanctified  of Sanctify
Sanctifying  of Sanctify
Sanctify  To make sacred or holy; to set apart to a holy or religious use; to consecrate by appropriate rites; to hallow.
Sanctify  To make free from sin; to cleanse from moral corruption and pollution; to purify.
Sanctify  To make efficient as the means of holiness; to render productive of holiness or piety.
Sanctify  To impart or impute sacredness, venerableness, inviolability, title to reverence and respect, or the like, to; to secure from violation; to give sanction to.
Sanctifyingly  In a manner or degree tending to sanctify or make holy.
Sanctiloquent  Discoursing on heavenly or holy things, or in a holy manner.
Sanctimonial  Sanctimonious.
Sanctimonious  Possessing sanctimony; holy; sacred; saintly.
Sanctimonious  Making a show of sanctity; affecting saintliness; hypocritically devout or pious.
Sanctimony  Holiness; devoutness; scrupulous austerity; sanctity; especially, outward or artificial saintliness; assumed or pretended holiness; hypocritical devoutness.
Sanction  Solemn or ceremonious ratification; an official act of a superior by which he ratifies and gives validity to the act of some other person or body; establishment or furtherance of anything by giving authority to it; confirmation; approbation.
Sanction  Anything done or said to enforce the will, law, or authority of another; as, legal sanctions.
Sanctioned  of Sanction
Sanctioning  of Sanction
Sanction  To give sanction to; to ratify; to confirm; to approve.
Sanctionary  Of, pertaining to, or giving, sanction.
Sanctitude  Holiness; sacredness; sanctity.
Sanctities  of Sanctity
Sanctity  The state or quality of being sacred or holy; holiness; saintliness; moral purity; godliness.
Sanctity  Sacredness; solemnity; inviolability; religious binding force; as, the sanctity of an oath.
Sanctity  A saint or holy being.
Sanctuarize  To shelter by means of a sanctuary or sacred privileges.
Sanctuaries  of Sanctuary
Sanctuary  A sacred place; a consecrated spot; a holy and inviolable site.
Sanctuary  The most retired part of the temple at Jerusalem, called the Holy of Holies, in which was kept the ark of the covenant, and into which no person was permitted to enter except the high priest, and he only once a year, to intercede for the people; also, the most sacred part of the tabernacle; also, the temple at Jerusalem.
Sanctuary  The most sacred part of any religious building, esp. that part of a Christian church in which the altar is placed.
Sanctuary  A house consecrated to the worship of God; a place where divine service is performed; a church, temple, or other place of worship.
Sanctuary  A sacred and inviolable asylum; a place of refuge and protection; shelter; refuge; protection.
Sanctum  A sacred place; hence, a place of retreat; a room reserved for personal use; as, an editor's sanctum.
Sanctus  A part of the Mass, or, in Protestant churches, a part of the communion service, of which the first words in Latin are Sanctus, sanctus, sanctus [Holy, holy, holy]; -- called also Tersanctus.
Sanctus  An anthem composed for these words.
Sand  Fine particles of stone, esp. of siliceous stone, but not reduced to dust; comminuted stone in the form of loose grains, which are not coherent when wet.
Sand  A single particle of such stone.
Sand  The sand in the hourglass; hence, a moment or interval of time; the term or extent of one's life.
Sand  Tracts of land consisting of sand, like the deserts of Arabia and Africa; also, extensive tracts of sand exposed by the ebb of the tide.
Sand  Courage; pluck; grit.
Sanded  of Sand
Sanding  of Sand
Sand  To sprinkle or cover with sand.
Sand  To drive upon the sand.
Sand  To bury (oysters) beneath drifting sand or mud.
Sand  To mix with sand for purposes of fraud; as, to sand sugar.
Sandal  Same as Sendal.
Sandal  Sandalwood.
Sandal  A kind of shoe consisting of a sole strapped to the foot; a protection for the foot, covering its lower surface, but not its upper.
Sandal  A kind of slipper.
Sandal  An overshoe with parallel openings across the instep.
Sandaled  Wearing sandals.
Sandaled  Made like a sandal.
Sandaliform  Shaped like a sandal or slipper.
Sandalwood  The highly perfumed yellowish heartwood of an East Indian and Polynesian tree (Santalum album), and of several other trees of the same genus, as the Hawaiian Santalum Freycinetianum and S. pyrularium, the Australian S. latifolium, etc. The name is extended to several other kinds of fragrant wood.
Sandalwood  Any tree of the genus Santalum, or a tree which yields sandalwood.
Sandalwood  The red wood of a kind of buckthorn, used in Russia for dyeing leather (Rhamnus Dahuricus).
Sandarach  Alt. of Sandarac
Sandarac  Realgar; red sulphide of arsenic.
Sandarac  A white or yellow resin obtained from a Barbary tree (Callitris quadrivalvis or Thuya articulata), and pulverized for pounce; -- probably so called from a resemblance to the mineral.
Sandbagger  An assaulter whose weapon is a sand bag. See Sand bag, under Sand.
Sand-blind  Having defective sight; dim-sighted; purblind.
Sanded  Covered or sprinkled with sand; sandy; barren.
Sanded  Marked with small spots; variegated with spots; speckled; of a sandy color, as a hound.
Sanded  Short-sighted.
Sandemanian  A follower of Robert Sandeman, a Scotch sectary of the eighteenth century. See Glassite.
Sandemanianism  The faith or system of the Sandemanians.
Sanderling  A small gray and brown sandpiper (Calidris arenaria) very common on sandy beaches in America, Europe, and Asia. Called also curwillet, sand lark, stint, and ruddy plover.
Sanders  An old name of sandalwood, now applied only to the red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.
Sanders-blue  See Saunders-blue.
Sandever  See Sandiver.
Sandfish  A small marine fish of the Pacific coast of North America (Trichodon trichodon) which buries itself in the sand.
Sandglass  An instrument for measuring time by the running of sand. See Hourglass.
Sandhiller  A nickname given to any "poor white" living in the pine woods which cover the sandy hills in Georgia and South Carolina.
Sandiness  The quality or state of being sandy, or of being of a sandy color.
Sandish  Approaching the nature of sand; loose; not compact.
Sandiver  A whitish substance which is cast up, as a scum, from the materials of glass in fusion, and, floating on the top, is skimmed off; -- called also glass gall.
Sandix  A kind of minium, or red lead, made by calcining carbonate of lead, but inferior to true minium.
Sandman  A mythical person who makes children sleepy, so that they rub their eyes as if there were sand in them.
Sandnecker  A European flounder (Hippoglossoides limandoides); -- called also rough dab, long fluke, sand fluke, and sand sucker.
Sandpaper  Paper covered on one side with sand glued fast, -- used for smoothing and polishing.
Sandpaper  To smooth or polish with sandpaper; as, to sandpaper a door.
Sandpiper  Any one of numerous species of small limicoline game birds belonging to Tringa, Actodromas, Ereunetes, and various allied genera of the family Tringidae.
Sandpiper  A small lamprey eel; the pride.
Sandpit  A pit or excavation from which sand is or has been taken.
Sandre  A Russian fish (Lucioperca sandre) which yields a valuable oil, called sandre oil, used in the preparation of caviare.
Sandstone  A rock made of sand more or less firmly united. Common or siliceous sandstone consists mainly of quartz sand.
Sandwich  Two pieces of bread and butter with a thin slice of meat, cheese, or the like, between them.
Sandwiched  of Sandwich
Sandwiching  of Sandwich
Sandwich  To make into a sandwich; also, figuratively, to insert between portions of something dissimilar; to form of alternate parts or things, or alternating layers of a different nature; to interlard.
Sandworm  Any one of numerous species of annelids which burrow in the sand of the seashore.
Sandworm  Any species of annelids of the genus Sabellaria. They construct firm tubes of agglutinated sand on rocks and shells, and are sometimes destructive to oysters.
Sandworm  The chigoe, a species of flea.
Sandwort  Any plant of the genus Arenaria, low, tufted herbs (order Caryophyllaceae.)
Sandy  Consisting of, abounding with, or resembling, sand; full of sand; covered or sprinkled with sand; as, a sandy desert, road, or soil.
Sandy  Of the color of sand; of a light yellowish red color; as, sandy hair.
Sandyx  See Sandix.
Sane  Being in a healthy condition; not deranged; acting rationally; -- said of the mind.
Sane  Mentally sound; possessing a rational mind; having the mental faculties in such condition as to be able to anticipate and judge of the effect of one's actions in an ordinary maner; -- said of persons.
Saneness  The state of being sane; sanity.
Sang  imp. of Sing.
Sanga  Alt. of Sangu
Sangu  The Abyssinian ox (Bos / Bibos, Africanus), noted for the great length of its horns. It has a hump on its back.
Sangaree  Wine and water sweetened and spiced, -- a favorite West Indian drink.
Sang-froid  Freedom from agitation or excitement of mind; coolness in trying circumstances; indifference; calmness.
Sangiac  See Sanjak.
Sangraal  Alt. of Sangreal
Sangreal  See Holy Grail, under Grail.
Sanguiferous  Conveying blood; as, sanguiferous vessels, i. e., the arteries, veins, capillaries.
Sanguification  The production of blood; the conversion of the products of digestion into blood; hematosis.
Sanguifier  A producer of blood.
Sanguifluous  Flowing or running with blood.
Sanguify  To produce blood from.
Sanguigenous  Producing blood; as, sanguigenous food.
Sanguinaceous  Of a blood-red color; sanguine.
Sanguinaria  A genus of plants of the Poppy family.
Sanguinaria  The rootstock of the bloodroot, used in medicine as an emetic, etc.
Sanguinarily  In a sanguinary manner.
Sanguinariness  The quality or state of being sanguinary.
Sanguinary  Attended with much bloodshed; bloody; murderous; as, a sanguinary war, contest, or battle.
Sanguinary  Bloodthirsty; cruel; eager to shed blood.
Sanguinary  The yarrow.
Sanguinary  The Sanguinaria.
Sanguine  Having the color of blood; red.
Sanguine  Characterized by abundance and active circulation of blood; as, a sanguine bodily temperament.
Sanguine  Warm; ardent; as, a sanguine temper.
Sanguine  Anticipating the best; not desponding; confident; full of hope; as, sanguine of success.
Sanguine  Blood color; red.
Sanguine  Anything of a blood-red color, as cloth.
Sanguine  Bloodstone.
Sanguine  Red crayon. See the Note under Crayon, 1.
Sanguine  To stain with blood; to impart the color of blood to; to ensanguine.
Sanguineless  Destitute of blood; pale.
Sanguinely  In a sanguine manner.
Sanguineness  The quality of being sanguine.
Sanguineous  Abounding with blood; sanguine.
Sanguineous  Of or pertaining to blood; bloody; constituting blood.
Sanguineous  Blood-red; crimson.
sanguinity  The quality of being sanguine; sanguineness.
Sanguinivorous  Subsisting on blood.
Sanguinolency  The state of being sanguinolent, or bloody.
Sanguinolent  Tinged or mingled with blood; bloody; as, sanguinolent sputa.
Sanguisuge  A bloodsucker, or leech.
Sanguivorous  Subsisting upon blood; -- said of certain blood-sucking bats and other animals. See Vampire.
Sanhedrin  Alt. of Sanhedrim
Sanhedrim  the great council of the Jews, which consisted of seventy members, to whom the high priest was added. It had jurisdiction of religious matters.
Sanhedrist  A member of the sanhedrin.
Sanhita  A collection of vedic hymns, songs, or verses, forming the first part of each Veda.
Sanicle  Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Sanicula, reputed to have healing powers.
Sanidine  A variety of orthoclase feldspar common in certain eruptive rocks, as trachyte; -- called also glassy feldspar.
Sanies  A thin, serous fluid commonly discharged from ulcers or foul wounds.
Sanious  Pertaining to sanies, or partaking of its nature and appearance; thin and serous, with a slight bloody tinge; as, the sanious matter of an ulcer.
Sanious  Discharging sanies; as, a sanious ulcer.
Sanitarian  Of or pertaining to health, or the laws of health; sanitary.
Sanitarian  An advocate of sanitary measures; one especially interested or versed in sanitary measures.
Sanitarist  A sanitarian.
Sanitarium  A health station or retreat; a sanatorium.
Sanitary  Of or pertaining to health; designed to secure or preserve health; relating to the preservation or restoration of health; hygienic; as, sanitary regulations. See the Note under Sanatory.
Sanitation  The act of rendering sanitary; the science of sanitary conditions; the preservation of health; the use of sanitary measures; hygiene.
Sanity  The condition or quality of being sane; soundness of health of body or mind, especially of the mind; saneness.
Sanjak  A district or a subvision of a vilayet.
Sank  imp. of Sink.
Sankha  A chank shell (Turbinella pyrum); also, a shell bracelet or necklace made in India from the chank shell.
Sankhya  A Hindoo system of philosophy which refers all things to soul and a rootless germ called prakriti, consisting of three elements, goodness, passion, and darkness.
Sannop  Same as Sannup.
Sannup  A male Indian; a brave; -- correlative of squaw.
Sanny  The sandpiper.
Sans  Without; deprived or destitute of. Rarely used as an English word.
Sanscrit  See Sanskrit.
Sans-culotte  A fellow without breeches; a ragged fellow; -- a name of reproach given in the first French revolution to the extreme republican party, who rejected breeches as an emblem peculiar to the upper classes or aristocracy, and adopted pantaloons.
Sans-culotte  Hence, an extreme or radical republican; a violent revolutionist; a Jacobin.
tted  of Cat
ties  of Constitutionality
The  A fit of yawning.
The  A disease of young poultry and other birds, attended with much gaping. It is caused by a parasitic nematode worm (Syngamus trachealis), in the windpipe, which obstructs the breathing. See Gapeworm.
ties  of Rurality
Taas  A heap. See Tas.
Tab  The flap or latchet of a shoe fastened with a string or a buckle.
Tab  A tag. See Tag, 2.
Tab  A loop for pulling or lifting something.
Tab  A border of lace or other material, worn on the inner front edge of ladies' bonnets.
Tab  A loose pendent part of a lady's garment; esp., one of a series of pendent squares forming an edge or border.
Tabacco  Tobacco.
Tabanus  A genus of blood sucking flies, including the horseflies.
Tabard  A sort of tunic or mantle formerly worn for protection from the weather. When worn over the armor it was commonly emblazoned with the arms of the wearer, and from this the name was given to the garment adopted for heralds.
Tabarder  One who wears a tabard.
Tabarder  A scholar on the foundation of Queen's College, Oxford, England, whose original dress was a tabard.
Tabaret  A stout silk having satin stripes, -- used for furniture.
Tabasheer  A concretion in the joints of the bamboo, which consists largely or chiefly of pure silica. It is highly valued in the East Indies as a medicine for the cure of bilious vomitings, bloody flux, piles, and various other diseases.
Tabbinet  A fabric like poplin, with a watered surface.
Tabbies  of Tabby
Tabby  A kind of waved silk, usually called watered silk, manufactured like taffeta, but thicker and stronger. The watering is given to it by calendering.
Tabby  A mixture of lime with shells, gravel, or stones, in equal proportions, with an equal proportion of water. When dry, this becomes as hard as rock.
Tabby  A brindled cat; hence, popularly, any cat.
Tabby  An old maid or gossip.
Tabby  Having a wavy or watered appearance; as, a tabby waistcoat.
Tabby  Brindled; diversified in color; as, a tabby cat.
Tabbied  of Tabby
Tabbying  of Tabby
Tabby  To water; to cause to look wavy, by the process of calendering; to calender; as, to tabby silk, mohair, ribbon, etc.
Tabefaction  A wasting away; a gradual losing of flesh by disease.
Tabefied  of Tabefy
Tabefying  of Tabefy
Tabefy  To cause to waste gradually, to emaciate.
Tabellion  A secretary or notary under the Roman empire; also, a similar officer in France during the old monarchy.
Taber  Same as Tabor.
Taberd  See Tabard.
Tabernacle  A slightly built or temporary habitation; especially, a tent.
Tabernacle  A portable structure of wooden framework covered with curtains, which was carried through the wilderness in the Israelitish exodus, as a place of sacrifice and worship.
Tabernacle  Hence, the Jewish temple; sometimes, any other place for worship.
Tabernacle  Figuratively: The human body, as the temporary abode of the soul.
Tabernacle  Any small cell, or like place, in which some holy or precious things was deposited or kept.
Tabernacle  The ornamental receptacle for the pyx, or for the consecrated elements, whether a part of a building or movable.
Tabernacle  A niche for the image of a saint, or for any sacred painting or sculpture.
Tabernacle  Hence, a work of art of sacred subject, having a partially architectural character, as a solid frame resting on a bracket, or the like.
Tabernacle  A tryptich for sacred imagery.
Tabernacle  A seat or stall in a choir, with its canopy.
Tabernacle  A boxlike step for a mast with the after side open, so that the mast can be lowered to pass under bridges, etc.
Tabernacled  of Tabernacle
Tabernacling  of Tabernacle
Tabernacle  To dwell or reside for a time; to be temporary housed.
Tabernacular  Of or pertaining to a tabernacle, especially the Jewish tabernacle.
Tabernacular  Formed in latticework; latticed.
Tabernacular  Of or pertaining to huts or booths; hence, common; low.
Tabes  Progressive emaciation of the body, accompained with hectic fever, with no well-marked logical symptoms.
Tabescent  Withering, or wasting away.
Tabetic  Of or pertaining to tabes; of the nature of tabes; affected with tabes; tabid.
Tabetic  One affected with tabes.
Tabid  Affected by tabes; tabetic.
Tabific  Alt. of Tabifical
Tabifical  Producing tabes; wasting; tabefying.
Tabinet  See Tabbinet.
Tablature  A painting on a wall or ceiling; a single piece comprehended in one view, and formed according to one design; hence, a picture in general.
Tablature  An ancient mode of indicating musical sounds by letters and other signs instead of by notes.
Tablature  Division into plates or tables with intervening spaces; as, the tablature of the cranial bones.
Table  A smooth, flat surface, like the side of a board; a thin, flat, smooth piece of anything; a slab.
Table  A thin, flat piece of wood, stone, metal, or other material, on which anything is cut, traced, written, or painted; a tablet
Table  a memorandum book.
Table  Any smooth, flat surface upon which an inscription, a drawing, or the like, may be produced.
Table  Hence, in a great variety of applications: A condensed statement which may be comprehended by the eye in a single view; a methodical or systematic synopsis; the presentation of many items or particulars in one group; a scheme; a schedule.
Table  A view of the contents of a work; a statement of the principal topics discussed; an index; a syllabus; a synopsis; as, a table of contents.
Table  A list of substances and their properties; especially, a list of the elementary substances with their atomic weights, densities, symbols, etc.
Table  Any collection and arrangement in a condensed form of many particulars or values, for ready reference, as of weights, measures, currency, specific gravities, etc.; also, a series of numbers following some law, and expressing particular values corresponding to certain other numbers on which they depend, and by means of which they are taken out for use in computations; as, tables of logarithms, sines, tangents, squares, cubes, etc.; annuity tables; interest tables; astronomical tables, etc.
Table  The arrangement or disposition of the lines which appear on the inside of the hand.
Table  An article of furniture, consisting of a flat slab, board, or the like, having a smooth surface, fixed horizontally on legs, and used for a great variety of purposes, as in eating, writing, or working.
Table  Hence, food placed on a table to be partaken of; fare; entertainment; as, to set a good table.
Table  The company assembled round a table.
Table  One of the two, external and internal, layers of compact bone, separated by diploe, in the walls of the cranium.
Table  A stringcourse which includes an offset; esp., a band of stone, or the like, set where an offset is required, so as to make it decorative. See Water table.
Table  The board on the opposite sides of which backgammon and draughts are played.
Table  One of the divisions of a backgammon board; as, to play into the right-hand table.
Table  The games of backgammon and of draughts.
Table  A circular plate of crown glass.
Table  The upper flat surface of a diamond or other precious stone, the sides of which are cut in angles.
Table  A plane surface, supposed to be transparent and perpendicular to the horizon; -- called also perspective plane.
Table  The part of a machine tool on which the work rests and is fastened.
Tableed  of Table
Tableing  of Table
Table  To form into a table or catalogue; to tabulate; as, to table fines.
Table  To delineate, as on a table; to represent, as in a picture.
Table  To supply with food; to feed.
Table  To insert, as one piece of timber into another, by alternate scores or projections from the middle, to prevent slipping; to scarf.
Table  To lay or place on a table, as money.
Table  In parliamentary usage, to lay on the table; to postpone, by a formal vote, the consideration of (a bill, motion, or the like) till called for, or indefinitely.
Table  To enter upon the docket; as, to table charges against some one.
Table  To make board hems in the skirts and bottoms of (sails) in order to strengthen them in the part attached to the boltrope.
Table  To live at the table of another; to board; to eat.
Tableaux  of Tableau
Tableau  A striking and vivid representation; a picture.
Tableau  A representation of some scene by means of persons grouped in the proper manner, placed in appropriate postures, and remaining silent and motionless.
Tableaux  of Tableau vivant
Tableau  Same as Tableau, n., 2.
Tablebook  A tablet; a notebook.
Tablecloth  A cloth for covering a table, especially one with which a table is covered before the dishes, etc., are set on for meals.
Tables  of Table d'hote
Table  A common table for guests at a hotel; an ordinary.
Table-land  A broad, level, elevated area of land; a plateau.
Tablemen  of Tableman
Tableman  A man at draughts; a piece used in playing games at tables. See Table, n., 10.
Tablement  A table.
Tabler  One who boards.
Tabler  One who boards others for hire.
Tablespoon  A spoon of the largest size commonly used at the table; -- distinguished from teaspoon, dessert spoon, etc.
Tablespoonfuls  of Tablespoonful
Tablespoonful  As much as a tablespoon will hold; enough to fill a tablespoon. It is usually reckoned as one half of a fluid ounce, or four fluid drams.
Tablet  A small table or flat surface.
Tablet  A flat piece of any material on which to write, paint, draw, or engrave; also, such a piece containing an inscription or a picture.
Tablet  Hence, a small picture; a miniature.
Tablet  A kind of pocket memorandum book.
Tablet  A flattish cake or piece; as, tablets of arsenic were formerly worn as a preservative against the plague.
Tablet  A solid kind of electuary or confection, commonly made of dry ingredients with sugar, and usually formed into little flat squares; -- called also lozenge, and troche, especially when of a round or rounded form.
Tableware  Ware, or articles collectively, for table use.
Tabling  A forming into tables; a setting down in order.
Tabling  The letting of one timber into another by alternate scores or projections, as in shipbuilding.
Tabling  A broad hem on the edge of a sail.
Tabling  Board; support.
Tabling  Act of playing at tables. See Table, n., 10.
Taboo  A total prohibition of intercourse with, use of, or approach to, a given person or thing under pain of death, -- an interdict of religious origin and authority, formerly common in the islands of Polynesia; interdiction.
Tabooed  of Taboo
Tabooing  of Taboo
Taboo  To put under taboo; to forbid, or to forbid the use of; to interdict approach to, or use of; as, to taboo the ground set apart as a sanctuary for criminals.
Tabor  A small drum used as an accompaniment to a pipe or fife, both being played by the same person.
Tabored  of Tabor
Taboring  of Tabor
Tabor  To play on a tabor, or little drum.
Tabor  To strike lightly and frequently.
Tabor  To make (a sound) with a tabor.
Taborer  One who plays on the tabor.
Taboret  A small tabor.
Taborine  A small, shallow drum; a tabor.
Taborite  One of certain Bohemian reformers who suffered persecution in the fifteenth century; -- so called from Tabor, a hill or fortress where they encamped during a part of their struggles.
Tabour  See Tabor.
Tabouret  Same as Taboret.
Tabouret  A seat without arms or back, cushioned and stuffed: a high stool; -- so called from its resemblance to a drum.
Tabouret  An embroidery frame.
Tabrere  A taborer.
Tabret  A taboret.
Tabu  See Taboo.
Tabulae  of Tabula
Tabula  A table; a tablet.
Tabula  One of the transverse plants found in the calicles of certain corals and hydroids.
Tabular  Having the form of, or pertaining to, a table (in any of the uses of the word).
Tabular  Having a flat surface; as, a tabular rock.
Tabular  Formed into a succession of flakes; laminated.
Tabular  Set in squares.
Tabular  Arranged in a schedule; as, tabular statistics.
Tabular  Derived from, or computed by, the use of tables; as, tabular right ascension.
Tabularization  The act of tabularizing, or the state of being tabularized; formation into tables; tabulation.
Tabularized  of Tabularize
Tabularizing  of Tabularize
Tabularize  To tabulate.
Tabulata  An artificial group of stony corals including those which have transverse septa in the calicles. The genera Pocillopora and Favosites are examples.
Tabulated  of Tabulate
Tabulating  of Tabulate
Tabulate  To form into a table or tables; to reduce to tables or synopses.
Tabulate  To shape with a flat surface.
Tabulation  The act of forming into a table or tables; as, the tabulation of statistics.
Tac  A kind of customary payment by a tenant; -- a word used in old records.
Tacamahac  Alt. of Tacamahaca
Tacamahaca  A bitter balsamic resin obtained from tropical American trees of the genus Elaphrium (E. tomentosum and E. Tacamahaca), and also from East Indian trees of the genus Calophyllum; also, the resinous exhudation of the balsam poplar.
Tacamahaca  Any tree yielding tacamahac resin, especially, in North America, the balsam poplar, or balm of Gilead (Populus balsamifera).
Tacaud  The bib, or whiting pout.
Tace  The cross, or church, of St. Antony. See Illust. (6), under Cross, n.
Tace  See Tasse.
Tacet  It is silent; -- a direction for a vocal or instrumental part to be silent during a whole movement.
Tache  Something used for taking hold or holding; a catch; a loop; a button.
Tache  A spot, stain, or blemish.
Tachhydrite  A hydrous chloride of calcium and magnesium occurring in yellowish masses which rapidly deliquesce upon exposure. It is found in the salt mines at Stassfurt.
Tachinae  of Tachina
Tachina  Any one of numerous species of Diptera belonging to Tachina and allied genera. Their larvae are external parasites of other insects.
Tachometer  An instrument for measuring the velocity, or indicating changes in the velocity, of a moving body or substance.
Tachometer  An instrument for measuring the velocity of running water in a river or canal, consisting of a wheel with inclined vanes, which is turned by the current. The rotations of the wheel are recorded by clockwork.
Tachometer  An instrument for showing at any moment the speed of a revolving shaft, consisting of a delicate revolving conical pendulum which is driven by the shaft, and the action of which by change of speed moves a pointer which indicates the speed on a graduated dial.
Tachometer  An instrument for measuring the velocity of the blood; a haematachometer.
Tachydidaxy  A short or rapid method of instructing.
Tachyglossa  A division of monotremes which comprises the spiny ant-eaters of Australia and New Guinea. See Illust. under Echidna.
Tachygraphic  Alt. of Tachygraphical
Tachygraphical  Of or pertaining to tachygraphy; written in shorthand.
Tachygraphy  The art or practice of rapid writing; shorthand writing; stenography.
Tachylyte  A vitreous form of basalt; -- so called because decomposable by acids and readily fusible.
Tacit  Done or made in silence; implied, but not expressed; silent; as, tacit consent is consent by silence, or by not interposing an objection.
Taciturn  Habitually silent; not given to converse; not apt to talk or speak.
Taciturnity  Habilual silence, or reserve in speaking.
Tack  A stain; a tache.
Tack  A peculiar flavor or taint; as, a musty tack.
Tack  A small, short, sharp-pointed nail, usually having a broad, flat head.
Tack  That which is attached; a supplement; an appendix. See Tack, v. t., 3.
Tack  A rope used to hold in place the foremost lower corners of the courses when the vessel is closehauled (see Illust. of Ship); also, a rope employed to pull the lower corner of a studding sail to the boom.
Tack  The part of a sail to which the tack is usually fastened; the foremost lower corner of fore-and-aft sails, as of schooners (see Illust. of Sail).
Tack  The direction of a vessel in regard to the trim of her sails; as, the starboard tack, or port tack; -- the former when she is closehauled with the wind on her starboard side; hence, the run of a vessel on one tack; also, a change of direction.
Tack  A contract by which the use of a thing is set, or let, for hire; a lease.
Tack  Confidence; reliance.
Tacked  of Tack
Tacking  of Tack
Tack  To fasten or attach.
Tack  Especially, to attach or secure in a slight or hasty manner, as by stitching or nailing; as, to tack together the sheets of a book; to tack one piece of cloth to another; to tack on a board or shingle; to tack one piece of metal to another by drops of solder.
Tack  In parliamentary usage, to add (a supplement) to a bill; to append; -- often with on or to.
Tack  To change the direction of (a vessel) when sailing closehauled, by putting the helm alee and shifting the tacks and sails so that she will proceed to windward nearly at right angles to her former course.
Tack  To change the direction of a vessel by shifting the position of the helm and sails; also (as said of a vessel), to have her direction changed through the shifting of the helm and sails. See Tack, v. t., 4.
Tacker  One who tacks.
Tacket  A small, broad-headed nail.
Tackey  See Tacky.
Tacking  A union of securities given at different times, all of which must be redeemed before an intermediate purchaser can interpose his claim.
Tackle  Apparatus for raising or lowering heavy weights, consisting of a rope and pulley blocks; sometimes, the rope and attachments, as distinct from the block.
Tackle  Any instruments of action; an apparatus by which an object is moved or operated; gear; as, fishing tackle, hunting tackle; formerly, specifically, weapons.
Tackle  The rigging and apparatus of a ship; also, any purchase where more than one block is used.
Tackled  of Tackle
Tackling  of Tackle
Tackle  To supply with tackle.
Tackle  To fasten or attach, as with a tackle; to harness; as, to tackle a horse into a coach or wagon.
Tackle  To seize; to lay hold of; to grapple; as, a wrestler tackles his antagonist; a dog tackles the game.
Tackle  To begin to deal with; as, to tackle the problem.
Tackled  Made of ropes tacked together.
Tackling  Furniture of the masts and yards of a vessel, as cordage, sails, etc.
Tackling  Instruments of action; as, fishing tackling.
Tackling  The straps and fixures adjusted to an animal, by which he draws a carriage, or the like; harness.
Tacksmen  of Tacksman
Tacksman  One who holds a tack or lease from another; a tenant, or lessee.
Tacky  Sticky; adhesive; raw; -- said of paint, varnish, etc., when not well dried.
Taconic  Designating, or pertaining to, the series of rocks forming the Taconic mountains in Western New England. They were once supposed to be older than the Cambrian, but later proved to belong to the Lower Silurian and Cambrian.
Tact  The sense of touch; feeling.
Tact  The stroke in beating time.
Tact  Sensitive mental touch; peculiar skill or faculty; nice perception or discernment; ready power of appreciating and doing what is required by circumstances.
Tactable  Capable of being touched; tangible.
Tactic  Alt. of Tactical
Tactical  Of or pertaining to the art of military and naval tactics.
Tactic  See Tactics.
Tactician  One versed in tactics; hence, a skillful maneuverer; an adroit manager.
Tactics  The science and art of disposing military and naval forces in order for battle, and performing military and naval evolutions. It is divided into grand tactics, or the tactics of battles, and elementary tactics, or the tactics of instruction.
Tactics  Hence, any system or method of procedure.
Tactile  Of or pertaining to the organs, or the sense, of touch; perceiving, or perceptible, by the touch; capable of being touched; as, tactile corpuscles; tactile sensations.
Tactility  The quality or state of being tactile; perceptibility by touch; tangibleness.
Taction  The act of touching; touch; contact; tangency.
Tactless  Destitute of tact.
Tactual  Of or pertaining to the sense, or the organs, of touch; derived from touch.
Tadpole  The young aquatic larva of any amphibian. In this stage it breathes by means of external or internal gills, is at first destitute of legs, and has a finlike tail. Called also polliwig, polliwog, porwiggle, or purwiggy.
Tadpole  The hooded merganser.
Taedium  See Tedium.
Tael  A denomination of money, in China, worth nearly six shillings sterling, or about a dollar and forty cents; also, a weight of one ounce and a third.
Taen  Alt. of Ta'en
Ta'en  p. p. of Ta, to take, or a contraction of Taken.
Taeniae  of Taenia
Taenia  A genus of intestinal worms which includes the common tapeworms of man. See Tapeworm.
Taenia  A band; a structural line; -- applied to several bands and lines of nervous matter in the brain.
Taenia  The fillet, or band, at the bottom of a Doric frieze, separating it from the architrave.
Taeniada  Same as Taenioidea.
Taeniata  A division of Ctenophora including those which have a long, ribbonlike body. The Venus's girdle is the most familiar example.
Taenidia  of Taenidium
Taenidium  The chitinous fiber forming the spiral thread of the tracheae of insects. See Illust. of Trachea.
Taenioglossa  An extensive division of gastropod mollusks in which the odontophore is long and narrow, and usually bears seven rows of teeth. It includes a large number of families both marine and fresh-water.
Taenioglossate  Of or pertaining to the Taenioglossa.
Taenioid  Ribbonlike; shaped like a ribbon.
Taenioid  Like or pertaining to Taenia.
Taenioidea  The division of cestode worms which comprises the tapeworms. See Tapeworm.
Taeniolae  of Taeniola
Taeniola  One of the radial partitions which separate the internal cavities of certain medusae.
Taeniosomi  An order of fishes remarkable for their long and compressed form. The ribbon fishes are examples. See Ribbon fish, under Ribbon.
Tafferer  See Taffrail.
Taffeta  Alt. of Taffety
Taffety  A fine, smooth stuff of silk, having usually the wavy luster called watering. The term has also been applied to different kinds of silk goods, from the 16th century to modern times.
Taffrail  The upper part of a ship's stern, which is flat like a table on the top, and sometimes ornamented with carved work; the rail around a ship's stern.
Taffy  A kind of candy made of molasses or brown sugar boiled down and poured out in shallow pans.
Taffy  Flattery; soft phrases.
Tafia  A variety of rum.
Tag  Any slight appendage, as to an article of dress; something slight hanging loosely; specifically, a direction card, or label.
Tag  A metallic binding, tube, or point, at the end of a string, or lace, to stiffen it.
Tag  The end, or catchword, of an actor's speech; cue.
Tag  Something mean and paltry; the rabble.
Tag  A sheep of the first year.
Tag  A sale of usually used items (such as furniture, clothing, household items or bric-a-brac), conducted by one or a small group of individuals, at a location which is not a normal retail establishment.
Tagged  of Tag
Tagging  of Tag
Tag  To fit with, or as with, a tag or tags.
Tag  To join; to fasten; to attach.
Tag  To follow closely after; esp., to follow and touch in the game of tag. See Tag, a play.
Tag  To follow closely, as it were an appendage; -- often with after; as, to tag after a person.
Tag  A child's play in which one runs after and touches another, and then runs away to avoid being touched.
Tagbelt  Same as Tagsore.
Tagger  One who, or that which, appends or joins one thing to another.
Tagger  That which is pointed like a tag.
Tagger  Sheets of tin or other plate which run below the gauge.
Tagger  A device for removing taglocks from sheep.
Taglet  A little tag.
Taglia  A peculiar combination of pulleys.
Tagliacotain  Of or pertaining to Tagliacozzi, a Venetian surgeon; as, the Tagliacotian operation, a method of rhinoplasty described by him.
Taglioni  A kind of outer coat, or overcoat; -- said to be so named after a celebrated Italian family of professional dancers.
Taglock  An entangled lock, as of hair or wool.
Tagnicate  The white-lipped peccary.
Tag-rag  The lowest class of people; the rabble. Cf. Rag, tag, and bobtail, under Bobtail.
Tagsore  Adhesion of the tail of a sheep to the wool from excoriation produced by contact with the feces; -- called also tagbelt.
Tagtail  A worm which has its tail conspicuously colored.
Tagtail  A person who attaches himself to another against the will of the latter; a hanger-on.
Taguan  A large flying squirrel (Pteromys petuarista). Its body becomes two feet long, with a large bushy tail nearly as long.
Taguicati  The white-lipped peccary.
Taha  The African rufous-necked weaver bird (Hyphantornis texor).
Tahaleb  A fox (Vulpes Niloticus) of Northern Africa.
Tahitian  Of or pertaining to Tahiti, an island in the Pacific Ocean.
Tahitian  A native inhabitant of Tahiti.
Tahr  Same as Thar.
Tail  Limitation; abridgment.
Tail  Limited; abridged; reduced; curtailed; as, estate tail.
Tail  The terminal, and usually flexible, posterior appendage of an animal.
Tail  Any long, flexible terminal appendage; whatever resembles, in shape or position, the tail of an animal, as a catkin.
Tail  Hence, the back, last, lower, or inferior part of anything, -- as opposed to the head, or the superior part.
Tail  A train or company of attendants; a retinue.
Tail  The side of a coin opposite to that which bears the head, effigy, or date; the reverse; -- rarely used except in the expression "heads or tails," employed when a coin is thrown up for the purpose of deciding some point by its fall.
Tail  The distal tendon of a muscle.
Tail  A downy or feathery appendage to certain achenes. It is formed of the permanent elongated style.
Tail  A portion of an incision, at its beginning or end, which does not go through the whole thickness of the skin, and is more painful than a complete incision; -- called also tailing.
Tail  One of the strips at the end of a bandage formed by splitting the bandage one or more times.
Tail  A rope spliced to the strap of a block, by which it may be lashed to anything.
Tail  The part of a note which runs perpendicularly upward or downward from the head; the stem.
Tail  Same as Tailing, 4.
Tail  The bottom or lower portion of a member or part, as a slate or tile.
Tail  See Tailing, n., 5.
Tail  To follow or hang to, like a tail; to be attached closely to, as that which can not be evaded.
Tail  To pull or draw by the tail.
Tail  To hold by the end; -- said of a timber when it rests upon a wall or other support; -- with in or into.
Tail  To swing with the stern in a certain direction; -- said of a vessel at anchor; as, this vessel tails down stream.
Tailage  See Tallage.
Tail-bay  One of the joists which rest one end on the wall and the other on a girder; also, the space between a wall and the nearest girder of a floor. Cf. Case-bay.
Tail-bay  The part of a canal lock below the lower gates.
Tailblock  A block with a tail. See Tail, 9.
Tailboard  The board at the rear end of a cart or wagon, which can be removed or let down, for convenience in loading or unloading.
Tailed  Having a tail; having (such) a tail or (so many) tails; -- chiefly used in composition; as, bobtailed, longtailed, etc.
Tailing  The part of a projecting stone or brick inserted in a wall.
Tailing  Same as Tail, n., 8 (a).
Tailing  Sexual intercourse.
Tailing  The lighter parts of grain separated from the seed threshing and winnowing; chaff.
Tailing  The refuse part of stamped ore, thrown behind the tail of the buddle or washing apparatus. It is dressed over again to secure whatever metal may exist in it. Called also tails.
Taille  A tally; an account scored on a piece of wood.
Taille  Any imposition levied by the king, or any other lord, upon his subjects.
Taille  The French name for the tenor voice or part; also, for the tenor viol or viola.
Tailless  Having no tail.
Taillie  Same as Tailzie.
Tailor  One whose occupation is to cut out and make men's garments; also, one who cuts out and makes ladies' outer garments.
Tailor  The mattowacca; -- called also tailor herring.
Tailor  The silversides.
Tailor  The goldfish.
Tailored  of Tailor
Tailoring  of Tailor
Tailor  To practice making men's clothes; to follow the business of a tailor.
Tailoress  A female tailor.
Tailoring  The business or the work of a tailor or a tailoress.
Tailpiece  A piece at the end; an appendage.
Tailpiece  One of the timbers which tail into a header, in floor framing. See Illust. of Header.
Tailpiece  An ornament placed at the bottom of a short page to fill up the space, or at the end of a book.
Tailpiece  A piece of ebony or other material attached to the lower end of a violin or similar instrument, to which the strings are fastened.
Tailpin  The center in the spindle of a turning lathe.
Tailrace  See Race, n., 6.
Tailrace  The channel in which tailings, suspended in water, are conducted away.
Tailstock  The sliding block or support, in a lathe, which carries the dead spindle, or adjustable center. The headstock supports the live spindle.
Tail-water  Water in a tailrace.
Tailzie  An entailment or deed whereby the legal course of succession is cut off, and an arbitrary one substituted.
Tain  Thin tin plate; also, tin foil for mirrors.
Taint  A thrust with a lance, which fails of its intended effect.
Taint  An injury done to a lance in an encounter, without its being broken; also, a breaking of a lance in an encounter in a dishonorable or unscientific manner.
Tainted  of Taint
Tainting  of Taint
Taint  To thrust ineffectually with a lance.
Taint  To injure, as a lance, without breaking it; also, to break, as a lance, but usually in an unknightly or unscientific manner.
Taint  To hit or touch lightly, in tilting.
Taint  To imbue or impregnate with something extraneous, especially with something odious, noxious, or poisonous; hence, to corrupt; to infect; to poison; as, putrid substance taint the air.
Taint  Fig.: To stain; to sully; to tarnish.
Taint  To be infected or corrupted; to be touched with something corrupting.
Taint  To be affected with incipient putrefaction; as, meat soon taints in warm weather.
Taint  Tincture; hue; color; tinge.
Taint  Infection; corruption; deprivation.
Taint  A blemish on reputation; stain; spot; disgrace.
Taintless  Free from taint or infection; pure.
Taintlessly  In a taintless manner.
Tainture  Taint; tinge; difilement; stain; spot.
Taintworm  A destructive parasitic worm or insect larva.
Taira  Same as Tayra.
Tairn  See Tarn.
Tait  A small nocturnal and arboreal Australian marsupial (Tarsipes rostratus) about the size of a mouse. It has a long muzzle, a long tongue, and very few teeth, and feeds upon honey and insects. Called also noolbenger.
Tajacu  Alt. of Tajassu
Tajassu  The common, or collared, peccary.
Take  Taken.
Took  of Take
Takend  of Take
Taking  of Take
Take  In an active sense; To lay hold of; to seize with the hands, or otherwise; to grasp; to get into one's hold or possession; to procure; to seize and carry away; to convey.
Take  To obtain possession of by force or artifice; to get the custody or control of; to reduce into subjection to one's power or will; to capture; to seize; to make prisoner; as, to take am army, a city, or a ship; also, to come upon or befall; to fasten on; to attack; to seize; -- said of a disease, misfortune, or the like.
Take  To gain or secure the interest or affection of; to captivate; to engage; to interest; to charm.
Take  To make selection of; to choose; also, to turn to; to have recourse to; as, to take the road to the right.
Take  To employ; to use; to occupy; hence, to demand; to require; as, it takes so much cloth to make a coat.
Take  To form a likeness of; to copy; to delineate; to picture; as, to take picture of a person.
Take  To draw; to deduce; to derive.
Take  To assume; to adopt; to acquire, as shape; to permit to one's self; to indulge or engage in; to yield to; to have or feel; to enjoy or experience, as rest, revenge, delight, shame; to form and adopt, as a resolution; -- used in general senses, limited by a following complement, in many idiomatic phrases; as, to take a resolution; I take the liberty to say.
Take  To lead; to conduct; as, to take a child to church.
Take  To carry; to convey; to deliver to another; to hand over; as, he took the book to the bindery.
Take  To remove; to withdraw; to deduct; -- with from; as, to take the breath from one; to take two from four.
Take  In a somewhat passive sense, to receive; to bear; to endure; to acknowledge; to accept.
Take  To accept, as something offered; to receive; not to refuse or reject; to admit.
Take  To receive as something to be eaten or dronk; to partake of; to swallow; as, to take food or wine.
Take  Not to refuse or balk at; to undertake readily; to clear; as, to take a hedge or fence.
Take  To bear without ill humor or resentment; to submit to; to tolerate; to endure; as, to take a joke; he will take an affront from no man.
Take  To admit, as, something presented to the mind; not to dispute; to allow; to accept; to receive in thought; to entertain in opinion; to understand; to interpret; to regard or look upon; to consider; to suppose; as, to take a thing for granted; this I take to be man's motive; to take men for spies.
Take  To accept the word or offer of; to receive and accept; to bear; to submit to; to enter into agreement with; -- used in general senses; as, to take a form or shape.
Take  To take hold; to fix upon anything; to have the natural or intended effect; to accomplish a purpose; as, he was inoculated, but the virus did not take.
Take  To please; to gain reception; to succeed.
Take  To move or direct the course; to resort; to betake one's self; to proceed; to go; -- usually with to; as, the fox, being hard pressed, took to the hedge.
Take  To admit of being pictured, as in a photograph; as, his face does not take well.
Take  That which is taken; especially, the quantity of fish captured at one haul or catch.
Take  The quantity or copy given to a compositor at one time.
Take-in  Imposition; fraud.
Taken  p. p. of Take.
Take-off  An imitation, especially in the way of caricature.
Taker  One who takes or receives; one who catches or apprehends.
Take-up  That which takes up or tightens; specifically, a device in a sewing machine for drawing up the slack thread as the needle rises, in completing a stitch.
Taking  Apt to take; alluring; attracting.
Taking  Infectious; contageous.
Taking  The act of gaining possession; a seizing; seizure; apprehension.
Taking  Agitation; excitement; distress of mind.
Taking  Malign influence; infection.
Taking-off  Removal; murder. See To take off (c), under Take, v. t.
Talapoin  A small African monkey (Cercopithecus, / Miopithecus, talapoin) -- called also melarhine.
Talaria  Small wings or winged shoes represented as fastened to the ankles, -- chiefly used as an attribute of Mercury.
Talbot  A sort of dog, noted for quick scent and eager pursuit of game.
Talbotype  Same as Calotype.
Talc  A soft mineral of a soapy feel and a greenish, whitish, or grayish color, usually occurring in foliated masses. It is hydrous silicate of magnesia. Steatite, or soapstone, is a compact granular variety.
Talcose  Alt. of Talcous
Talcous  Of or pertaining to talc; composed of, or resembling, talc.
Tale  See Tael.
Tale  That which is told; an oral relation or recital; any rehearsal of what has occured; narrative; discourse; statement; history; story.
Tale  A number told or counted off; a reckoning by count; an enumeration; a count, in distinction from measure or weight; a number reckoned or stated.
Tale  A count or declaration.
Tale  To tell stories.
Talebearer  One who officiously tells tales; one who impertinently or maliciously communicates intelligence, scandal, etc., and makes mischief.
Talebearing  Telling tales officiously.
Talebearing  The act of informing officiously; communication of sectrts, scandal, etc., maliciously.
Taled  A kind of quadrangular piece of cloth put on by the Jews when repeating prayers in the synagogues.
Taleful  Full of stories.
Talegalla  A genus of Australian birds which includes the brush turkey. See Brush turkey.
Talent  Among the ancient Greeks, a weight and a denomination of money equal to 60 minae or 6,000 drachmae. The Attic talent, as a weight, was about 57 lbs. avoirdupois; as a denomination of silver money, its value was 243 15s. sterling, or about $1,180.
Talent  Among the Hebrews, a weight and denomination of money. For silver it was equivalent to 3,000 shekels, and in weight was equal to about 93/ lbs. avoirdupois; as a denomination of silver, it has been variously estimated at from 340 to 396 sterling, or about $1,645 to $1,916. For gold it was equal to 10,000 gold shekels.
Talent  Inclination; will; disposition; desire.
Talent  Intellectual ability, natural or acquired; mental endowment or capacity; skill in accomplishing; a special gift, particularly in business, art, or the like; faculty; a use of the word probably originating in the Scripture parable of the talents (Matt. xxv. 14-30).
Talented  Furnished with talents; possessing skill or talent; mentally gifted.
Tales  Persons added to a jury, commonly from those in or about the courthouse, to make up any deficiency in the number of jurors regularly summoned, being like, or such as, the latter.
Tales  The writ by which such persons are summoned.
Talesmen  of Talesman
Talesman  A person called to make up a deficiency in the number of jurors when a tales is awarded.
Taleteller  One who tells tales or stories, especially in a mischievous or officious manner; a talebearer; a telltale; a tattler.
Talewise  In a way of a tale or story.
Taliacotian  See Tagliacotian.
Taliation  Retaliation.
Talion  Retaliation.
Talipes  The deformity called clubfoot. See Clubfoot.
Talipot  A beautiful tropical palm tree (Corypha umbraculifera), a native of Ceylon and the Malabar coast. It has a trunk sixty or seventy feet high, bearing a crown of gigantic fan-shaped leaves which are used as umbrellas and as fans in ceremonial processions, and, when cut into strips, as a substitute for writing paper.
Talismans  of Talisman
Talisman  A magical figure cut or engraved under certain superstitious observances of the configuration of the heavens, to which wonderful effects are ascribed; the seal, figure, character, or image, of a heavenly sign, constellation, or planet, engraved on a sympathetic stone, or on a metal corresponding to the star, in order to receive its influence.
Talisman  Hence, something that produces extraordinary effects, esp. in averting or repelling evil; an amulet; a charm; as, a talisman to avert diseases.
Talismanic  Alt. of Talismanical
Talismanical  Of or pertaining to a talisman; having the properties of a talisman, or preservative against evils by occult influence; magical.
Talked  of Talk
Talking  of Talk
Talk  To utter words; esp., to converse familiarly; to speak, as in familiar discourse, when two or more persons interchange thoughts.
Talk  To confer; to reason; to consult.
Talk  To prate; to speak impertinently.
Talk  To speak freely; to use for conversing or communicating; as, to talk French.
Talk  To deliver in talking; to speak; to utter; to make a subject of conversation; as, to talk nonsense; to talk politics.
Talk  To consume or spend in talking; -- often followed by away; as, to talk away an evening.
Talk  To cause to be or become by talking.
Talk  The act of talking; especially, familiar converse; mutual discourse; that which is uttered, especially in familiar conversation, or the mutual converse of two or more.
Talk  Report; rumor; as, to hear talk of war.
Talk  Subject of discourse; as, his achievment is the talk of the town.
Talkative  Given to much talking.
Talker  One who talks; especially, one who is noted for his power of conversing readily or agreeably; a conversationist.
Talker  A loquacious person, male or female; a prattler; a babbler; also, a boaster; a braggart; -- used in contempt or reproach.
Talking  That talks; able to utter words; as, a talking parrot.
Talking  Given to talk; loquacious.
Tall  High in stature; having a considerable, or an unusual, extension upward; long and comparatively slender; having the diameter or lateral extent small in proportion to the height; as, a tall person, tree, or mast.
Tall  Brave; bold; courageous.
Tall  Fine; splendid; excellent; also, extravagant; excessive.
Tallage  Alt. of Talliage
Talliage  A certain rate or tax paid by barons, knights, and inferior tenants, toward the public expenses.
Tallage  To lay an impost upon; to cause to pay tallage.
Tallier  One who keeps tally.
Tallness  The quality or state of being tall; height of stature.
Tallow  The suet or fat of animals of the sheep and ox kinds, separated from membranous and fibrous matter by melting.
Tallow  The fat of some other animals, or the fat obtained from certain plants, or from other sources, resembling the fat of animals of the sheep and ox kinds.
Tallowed  of Tallow
Tallowing  of Tallow
Tallow  To grease or smear with tallow.
Tallow  To cause to have a large quantity of tallow; to fatten; as, tallow sheep.
Tallower  An animal which produces tallow.
Tallow-face  One who has a sickly, pale complexion.
Tallow-faced  Having a sickly complexion; pale.
Tallowing  The act, or art, of causing animals to produce tallow; also, the property in animals of producing tallow.
Tallowish  Having the qualities of tallow.
Tallowy  Of the nature of tallow; resembling tallow; greasy.
Tallwood  Firewood cut into billets of a certain length.
Tallies  of Tally
Tally  Originally, a piece of wood on which notches or scores were cut, as the marks of number; later, one of two books, sheets of paper, etc., on which corresponding accounts were kept.
Tally  Hence, any account or score kept by notches or marks, whether on wood or paper, or in a book; especially, one kept in duplicate.
Tally  One thing made to suit another; a match; a mate.
Tally  A notch, mark, or score made on or in a tally; as, to make or earn a tally in a game.
Tally  A tally shop. See Tally shop, below.
Tallied  of Tally
Tallying  of Tally
Tally  To score with correspondent notches; hence, to make to correspond; to cause to fit or suit.
Tally  To check off, as parcels of freight going inboard or outboard.
Tally  To be fitted; to suit; to correspond; to match.
Tally  To make a tally; to score; as, to tally in a game.
Tally  Stoutly; with spirit.
Tallyho  The huntsman's cry to incite or urge on his hounds.
Tallyho  A tallyho coach.
Tallymen  of Tallyman
Tallyman  One who keeps the tally, or marks the sticks.
Tallyman  One who keeps a tally shop, or conducts his business as tally trade.
Talmas  of Talma
Talma  A kind of large cape, or short, full cloak, forming part of the dress of ladies.
Talma  A similar garment worn formerly by gentlemen.
Talmud  The body of the Jewish civil and canonical law not comprised in the Pentateuch.
Talmudic  Alt. of Talmudical
Talmudical  Of or pertaining to the Talmud; contained in the Talmud; as, Talmudic Greek; Talmudical phrases.
Talmudist  One versed in the Talmud; one who adheres to the teachings of the Talmud.
Talmudistic  Resembling the Talmud; Talmudic.
Talon  The claw of a predaceous bird or animal, especially the claw of a bird of prey.
Talon  One of certain small prominences on the hind part of the face of an elephant's tooth.
Talon  A kind of molding, concave at the bottom and convex at the top; -- usually called an ogee.
Talon  The shoulder of the bolt of a lock on which the key acts to shoot the bolt.
Talook  Alt. of Taluk
Taluk  A large estate; esp., one constituting a revenue district or dependency the native proprietor of which is responsible for the collection and payment of the public revenue due from it.
Talookdar  Alt. of Talukdar
Talukdar  A proprietor of a talook.
Talpa  A genus of small insectivores including the common European mole.
Tali  of Talus
Talus  The astragalus.
Talus  A variety of clubfoot (Talipes calcaneus). See the Note under Talipes.
Talus  A slope; the inclination of the face of a work.
Talus  A sloping heap of fragments of rock lying at the foot of a precipice.
Tamability  The quality or state of being tamable; tamableness.
Tamable  Capable of being tamed, subdued, or reclaimed from wildness or savage ferociousness.
Tamandu  A small ant-eater (Tamandua tetradactyla) native of the tropical parts of South America.
Tamanoir  The ant-bear.
Tamarack  The American larch; also, the larch of Oregon and British Columbia (Larix occidentalis). See Hackmatack, and Larch.
Tamarack  The black pine (Pinus Murrayana) of Alaska, California, etc. It is a small tree with fine-grained wood.
Tamaric  A shrub or tree supposed to be the tamarisk, or perhaps some kind of heath.
Tamarin  Any one of several species of small squirrel-like South American monkeys of the genus Midas, especially M. ursulus.
Tamarind  A leguminous tree (Tamarindus Indica) cultivated both the Indies, and the other tropical countries, for the sake of its shade, and for its fruit. The trunk of the tree is lofty and large, with wide-spreading branches; the flowers are in racemes at the ends of the branches. The leaves are small and finely pinnated.
Tamarind  One of the preserved seed pods of the tamarind, which contain an acid pulp, and are used medicinally and for preparing a pleasant drink.
Tamarisk  Any shrub or tree of the genus Tamarix, the species of which are European and Asiatic. They have minute scalelike leaves, and small flowers in spikes. An Arabian species (T. mannifera) is the source of one kind of manna.
Tambac  See Tombac.
Tambour  A kind of small flat drum; a tambourine.
Tambour  A small frame, commonly circular, and somewhat resembling a tambourine, used for stretching, and firmly holding, a portion of cloth that is to be embroidered; also, the embroidery done upon such a frame; -- called also, in the latter sense, tambour work.
Tambour  Same as Drum, n., 2(d).
Tambour  A work usually in the form of a redan, to inclose a space before a door or staircase, or at the gorge of a larger work. It is arranged like a stockade.
Tambour  A shallow metallic cup or drum, with a thin elastic membrane supporting a writing lever. Two or more of these are connected by an India rubber tube, and used to transmit and register the movements of the pulse or of any pulsating artery.
Tamboured  of Tambour
Tambouring  of Tambour
Tambour  To embroider on a tambour.
Tambourin  A tambourine.
Tambourin  An old Provencal dance of a lively character, common on the stage.
Tambourine  A small drum, especially a shallow drum with only one skin, played on with the hand, and having bells at the sides; a timbrel.
Tambreet  The duck mole.
Tamburin  See Tambourine.
Tame  To broach or enter upon; to taste, as a liquor; to divide; to distribute; to deal out.
Tame  Reduced from a state of native wildness and shyness; accustomed to man; domesticated; domestic; as, a tame deer, a tame bird.
Tame  Crushed; subdued; depressed; spiritless.
Tame  Deficient in spirit or animation; spiritless; dull; flat; insipid; as, a tame poem; tame scenery.
Tamed  of Tame
Taming  of Tame
Tame  To reduce from a wild to a domestic state; to make gentle and familiar; to reclaim; to domesticate; as, to tame a wild beast.
Tame  To subdue; to conquer; to repress; as, to tame the pride or passions of youth.
Tameable  Tamable.
Tameless  Incapable of being tamed; wild; untamed; untamable.
Tamely  In a tame manner.
Tameness  The quality or state of being tame.
Tamer  One who tames or subdues.
Tamias  A genus of ground squirrels, including the chipmunk.
Tamil  Of or pertaining to the Tamils, or to their language.
Tamil  One of a Dravidian race of men native of Northern Ceylon and Southern India.
Tamil  The Tamil language, the most important of the Dravidian languages. See Dravidian, a.
Tamilian  Tamil.
Tamine  Alt. of Taminy
Taminy  A kind of woolen cloth; tammy.
Tamis  A sieve, or strainer, made of a kind of woolen cloth.
Tamis  The cloth itself; tammy.
Tamkin  A tampion.
Tammies  of Tammy
Tammy  A kind of woolen, or woolen and cotton, cloth, often highly glazed, -- used for curtains, sieves, strainers, etc.
Tammy  A sieve, or strainer, made of this material; a tamis.
Tamped  of Tamp
Tamping  of Tamp
Tamp  In blasting, to plug up with clay, earth, dry sand, sod, or other material, as a hole bored in a rock, in order to prevent the force of the explosion from being misdirected.
Tamp  To drive in or down by frequent gentle strokes; as, to tamp earth so as to make a smooth place.
Tampan  A venomous South African tick.
Tampeon  See Tampion.
Tamper  One who tamps; specifically, one who prepares for blasting, by filling the hole in which the charge is placed.
Tamper  An instrument used in tamping; a tamping iron.
Tampered  of Tamper
Tampering  of Tamper
Tamper  To meddle; to be busy; to try little experiments; as, to tamper with a disease.
Tamper  To meddle so as to alter, injure, or vitiate a thing.
Tamper  To deal unfairly; to practice secretly; to use bribery.
Tamperer  One who tampers; one who deals unfairly.
Tampico  Alt. of fibre
Tamping  The act of one who tamps; specifically, the act of filling up a hole in a rock, or the branch of a mine, for the purpose of blasting the rock or exploding the mine.
Tamping  The material used in tamping. See Tamp, v. t., 1.
Tampion  A wooden stopper, or plug, as for a cannon or other piece of ordnance, when not in use.
Tampion  A plug for upper end of an organ pipe.
Tampoe  The edible fruit of an East Indian tree (Baccaurea Malayana) of the Spurge family. It somewhat resembles an apple.
Tampon  A plug introduced into a natural or artificial cavity of the body in order to arrest hemorrhage, or for the application of medicine.
Tampon  To plug with a tampon.
Tampoon  The stopper of a barrel; a bung.
Tam-tam  A kind of drum used in the East Indies and other Oriental countries; -- called also tom-tom.
Tam-tam  A gong. See Gong, n., 1.
Tamul  Tamil.
Tan  See Picul.
Tan  The bark of the oak, and some other trees, bruised and broken by a mill, for tanning hides; -- so called both before and after it has been used. Called also tan bark.
Tan  A yellowish-brown color, like that of tan.
Tan  A brown color imparted to the skin by exposure to the sun; as, hands covered with tan.
Tan  Of the color of tan; yellowish-brown.
Tanned  of Tan
Tanning  of Tan
Tan  To convert (the skin of an animal) into leather, as by usual process of steeping it in an infusion of oak or some other bark, whereby it is impregnated with tannin, or tannic acid (which exists in several species of bark), and is thus rendered firm, durable, and in some degree impervious to water.
Tan  To make brown; to imbrown, as by exposure to the rays of the sun; as, to tan the skin.
Tan  To get or become tanned.
Tana  Same as Banxring.
Tanager  Any one of numerous species of bright-colored singing birds belonging to Tanagra, Piranga, and allied genera. The scarlet tanager (Piranga erythromelas) and the summer redbird (Piranga rubra) are common species of the United States.
Tanagrine  Of or pertaining to the tanagers.
Tanagroid  Tanagrine.
Tanate  An Asiatic wild dog (Canis procyonoides), native of Japan and adjacent countries. It has a short, bushy tail. Called also raccoon dog.
Tandem  One after another; -- said especially of horses harnessed and driven one before another, instead of abreast.
Tandem  A team of horses harnessed one before the other.
Tang  A coarse blackish seaweed (Fuscus nodosus).
Tang  A strong or offensive taste; especially, a taste of something extraneous to the thing itself; as, wine or cider has a tang of the cask.
Tang  Fig.: A sharp, specific flavor or tinge. Cf. Tang a twang.
Tang  A projecting part of an object by means of which it is secured to a handle, or to some other part; anything resembling a tongue in form or position.
Tang  The part of a knife, fork, file, or other small instrument, which is inserted into the handle.
Tang  The projecting part of the breech of a musket barrel, by which the barrel is secured to the stock.
Tang  The part of a sword blade to which the handle is fastened.
Tang  The tongue of a buckle.
Tang  A sharp, twanging sound; an unpleasant tone; a twang.
Tanged  of Tang
Tanging  of Tang
Tang  To cause to ring or sound loudly; to ring.
Tang  To make a ringing sound; to ring.
Tangalung  An East Indian civet (Viverra tangalunga).
Tangence  Tangency.
Tangency  The quality or state of being tangent; a contact or touching.
Tangent  A tangent line curve, or surface; specifically, that portion of the straight line tangent to a curve that is between the point of tangency and a given line, the given line being, for example, the axis of abscissas, or a radius of a circle produced. See Trigonometrical function, under Function.
Tangent  Touching; touching at a single point
Tangent  meeting a curve or surface at a point and having at that point the same direction as the curve or surface; -- said of a straight line, curve, or surface; as, a line tangent to a curve; a curve tangent to a surface; tangent surfaces.
Tangental  Tangential.
Tangential  Of or pertaining to a tangent; in the direction of a tangent.
Tangentially  In the direction of a tangent.
Tangerine  A kind of orange, much like the mandarin, but of deeper color and higher flavor. It is said to have been produced in America from the mandarin.
Tangfish  The common harbor seal.
Tanghinia  The ordeal tree. See under Ordeal.
Tangibility  The quality or state of being tangible.
Tangible  Perceptible to the touch; tactile; palpable.
Tangible  Capable of being possessed or realized; readily apprehensible by the mind; real; substantial; evident.
Tangled  of Tangle
Tangling  of Tangle
Tangle  To unite or knit together confusedly; to interweave or interlock, as threads, so as to make it difficult to unravel the knot; to entangle; to ravel.
Tangle  To involve; to insnare; to entrap; as, to be tangled in lies.
Tangle  To be entangled or united confusedly; to get in a tangle.
Tangle  Any large blackish seaweed, especially the Laminaria saccharina. See Kelp.
Tangle  A knot of threads, or other thing, united confusedly, or so interwoven as not to be easily disengaged; a snarl; as, hair or yarn in tangles; a tangle of vines and briers. Used also figuratively.
Tangle  An instrument consisting essentially of an iron bar to which are attached swabs, or bundles of frayed rope, or other similar substances, -- used to capture starfishes, sea urchins, and other similar creatures living at the bottom of the sea.
Tanglefish  The sea adder, or great pipefish of Europe.
Tanglingly  In a tangling manner.
Tangly  Entangled; intricate.
Tangly  Covered with tangle, or seaweed.
Tangram  A Chinese toy made by cutting a square of thin wood, or other suitable material, into seven pieces, as shown in the cut, these pieces being capable of combination in various ways, so as to form a great number of different figures. It is now often used in primary schools as a means of instruction.
Tangue  The tenrec.
Tangun  A piebald variety of the horse, native of Thibet.
Tangwhaup  The whimbrel.
Tanier  An aroid plant (Caladium sagittaefolium), the leaves of which are boiled and eaten in the West Indies.
Tanist  In Ireland, a lord or proprietor of a tract of land or of a castle, elected by a family, under the system of tanistry.
Tanistry  In Ireland, a tenure of family lands by which the proprietor had only a life estate, to which he was admitted by election.
Tanite  A firm composition of emery and a certain kind of cement, used for making grinding wheels, slabs, etc.
Tank  A small Indian dry measure, averaging 240 grains in weight; also, a Bombay weight of 72 grains, for pearls.
Tank  A large basin or cistern; an artificial receptacle for liquids.
Tanka  A kind of boat used in Canton. It is about 25 feet long and is often rowed by women. Called also tankia.
Tankard  A large drinking vessel, especially one with a cover.
Tankia  See Tanka.
Tankling  A tinkling.
Tanling  One tanned by the sun.
Tannable  That may be tanned.
Tannage  A tanning; the act, operation, or result of tanning.
Tannate  A salt of tannic acid.
Tanner  One whose occupation is to tan hides, or convert them into leather by the use of tan.
Tanneries  of Tannery
Tannery  A place where the work of tanning is carried on.
Tannery  The art or process of tanning.
Tannic  Of or pertaining to tan; derived from, or resembling, tan; as, tannic acid.
Tannier  See Tanier.
Tannin  Same as Tannic acid, under Tannic.
Tanning  The art or process of converting skins into leather. See Tan, v. t., 1.
Tanrec  Same as Tenrec.
Tansy  Any plant of the composite genus Tanacetum. The common tansy (T. vulgare) has finely divided leaves, a strong aromatic odor, and a very bitter taste. It is used for medicinal and culinary purposes.
Tansy  A dish common in the seventeenth century, made of eggs, sugar, rose water, cream, and the juice of herbs, baked with butter in a shallow dish.
Tant  A small scarlet arachnid.
Tantalate  A salt of tantalic acid.
Tantalic  Of or pertaining to tantalum; derived from, or containing, tantalum; specifically, designating any one of a series of acids analogous to nitric acid and the polyacid compounds of phosphorus.
Tantalism  A punishment like that of Tantalus; a teasing or tormenting by the hope or near approach of good which is not attainable; tantalization.
Tantalite  A heavy mineral of an iron-black color and submetallic luster. It is essentially a tantalate of iron.
Tantalization  The act of tantalizing, or state of being tantalized.
Tantalized  of Tantalize
Tantalizing  of Tantalize
Tantalize  To tease or torment by presenting some good to the view and exciting desire, but continually frustrating the expectations by keeping that good out of reach; to tease; to torment.
Tantalizer  One who tantalizes.
Tantalizingly  In a tantalizing or teasing manner.
Tantalum  A rare nonmetallic element found in certain minerals, as tantalite, samarskite, and fergusonite, and isolated as a dark powder which becomes steel-gray by burnishing. Symbol Ta. Atomic weight 182.0. Formerly called also tantalium.
Tantalus  A Phrygian king who was punished in the lower world by being placed in the midst of a lake whose waters reached to his chin but receded whenever he attempted to allay his thirst, while over his head hung branches laden with choice fruit which likewise receded whenever he stretched out his hand to grasp them.
Tantalus  A genus of wading birds comprising the wood ibises.
Tantamount  Equivalent in value, signification, or effect.
Tantamount  To be tantamount or equivalent; to amount.
Tantivy  Swiftly; speedily; rapidly; -- a fox-hunting term; as, to ride tantivy.
Tantivy  A rapid, violent gallop; an impetuous rush.
Tantivy  To go away in haste.
Tantrum  A whim, or burst of ill-humor; an affected air.
Tanyard  An inclosure where the tanning of leather is carried on; a tannery.
Tanystomata  A division of dipterous insects in which the proboscis is large and contains lancelike mandibles and maxillae. The horseflies and robber flies are examples.
Taoism  One of the popular religions of China, sanctioned by the state.
Tapped  of Tap
Tapping  of Tap
Tap  To strike with a slight or gentle blow; to touch gently; to rap lightly; to pat; as, to tap one with the hand or a cane.
Tap  To put a new sole or heel on; as, to tap shoes.
Tap  A gentle or slight blow; a light rap; a pat.
Tap  A piece of leather fastened upon the bottom of a boot or shoe in repairing or renewing the sole or heel.
Tap  A signal, by drum or trumpet, for extinguishing all lights in soldiers' quarters and retiring to bed, -- usually given about a quarter of an hour after tattoo.
Tap  To strike a gentle blow.
Tap  A hole or pipe through which liquor is drawn.
Tap  A plug or spile for stopping a hole pierced in a cask, or the like; a faucet.
Tap  Liquor drawn through a tap; hence, a certain kind or quality of liquor; as, a liquor of the same tap.
Tap  A place where liquor is drawn for drinking; a taproom; a bar.
Tap  A tool for forming an internal screw, as in a nut, consisting of a hardened steel male screw grooved longitudinally so as to have cutting edges.
Tap  To pierce so as to let out, or draw off, a fluid; as, to tap a cask, a tree, a tumor, etc.
Tap  Hence, to draw from (anything) in any analogous way; as, to tap telegraph wires for the purpose of intercepting information; to tap the treasury.
Tap  To draw, or cause to flow, by piercing.
Tap  To form an internal screw in (anything) by means of a tool called a tap; as, to tap a nut.
Tapa  A kind of cloth prepared by the Polynesians from the inner bark of the paper mulberry; -- sometimes called also kapa.
Tapayaxin  A Mexican spinous lizard (Phrynosoma orbiculare) having a head somewhat like that of a toad; -- called also horned toad.
Tape  A narrow fillet or band of cotton or linen; a narrow woven fabric used for strings and the like; as, curtains tied with tape.
Tape  A tapeline; also, a metallic ribbon so marked as to serve as a tapeline; as, a steel tape.
Tapeline  A painted tape, marked with linear dimensions, as inches, feet, etc., and often inclosed in a case, -- used for measuring.
Taper  A small wax candle; a small lighted wax candle; hence, a small light.
Taper  A tapering form; gradual diminution of thickness in an elongated object; as, the taper of a spire.
Taper  Regularly narrowed toward the point; becoming small toward one end; conical; pyramidical; as, taper fingers.
Tapered  of Taper
Tapering  of Taper
Taper  To become gradually smaller toward one end; as, a sugar loaf tapers toward one end.
Taper  To make or cause to taper.
Tapered  Lighted with a taper or tapers; as, a tapered choir.
Tapering  Becoming gradually smaller toward one end.
Taperness  The quality or state of being taper; tapering form; taper.
Tapestries  of Tapestry
Tapestry  A fabric, usually of worsted, worked upon a warp of linen or other thread by hand, the designs being usually more or less pictorial and the stuff employed for wall hangings and the like. The term is also applied to different kinds of embroidery.
Tapestried  of Tapestry
Tapestrying  of Tapestry
Tapestry  To adorn with tapestry, or as with tapestry.
Tapet  Worked or figured stuff; tapestry.
Tapetis  of Tapeti
Tapeti  A small South American hare (Lepus Braziliensis).
Tapetum  An area in the pigmented layer of the choroid coat of the eye in many animals, which has an iridescent or metallic luster and helps to make the eye visible in the dark. Sometimes applied to the whole layer of pigmented epithelium of the choroid.
Tapeworm  Any one of numerous species of cestode worms belonging to Taenia and many allied genera. The body is long, flat, and composed of numerous segments or proglottids varying in shape, those toward the end of the body being much larger and longer than the anterior ones, and containing the fully developed sexual organs. The head is small, destitute of a mouth, but furnished with two or more suckers (which vary greatly in shape in different genera), and sometimes, also, with hooks for adhesion to the walls of the intestines of the animals in which they are parasitic. The larvae (see Cysticercus) live in the flesh of various creatures, and when swallowed by another animal of the right species develop into the mature tapeworm in its intestine. See Illustration in Appendix.
Taphouse  A house where liquors are retailed.
Taphrenchyma  Same as Bothrenchyma.
Tapinage  A lurking or skulking.
Tapioca  A coarsely granular substance obtained by heating, and thus partly changing, the moistened starch obtained from the roots of the cassava. It is much used in puddings and as a thickening for soups. See Cassava.
Tapir  Any one of several species of large odd-toed ungulates belonging to Tapirus, Elasmognathus, and allied genera. They have a long prehensile upper lip, short ears, short and stout legs, a short, thick tail, and short, close hair. They have three toes on the hind feet, and four toes on the fore feet, but the outermost toe is of little use.
Tapiroid  Allied to the tapir, or the Tapir family.
Tapis  Tapestry; formerly, the cover of a council table.
Tapis  To cover or work with figures like tapestry.
Tapiser  A maker of tapestry; an upholsterer.
Tapish  To lie close to the ground, so as to be concealed; to squat; to crouch; hence, to hide one's self.
Taplash  Bad small beer; also, the refuse or dregs of liquor.
Taplings  The strong double leathers by which the two parts of a flail are united.
Tapoa  A small carnivorous marsupial (Phascogale penicillata) having long, soft fur, and a very long tail with a tuft of long hairs at the end; -- called also brush-tailed phascogale.
Tappen  An obstruction, or indigestible mass, found in the intestine of bears and other animals during hibernation.
Tapper  The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor); -- called also tapperer, tabberer, little wood pie, barred woodpecker, wood tapper, hickwall, and pump borer.
Tappester  A female tapster.
Tappet  A lever or projection moved by some other piece, as a cam, or intended to tap or touch something else, with a view to produce change or regulate motion.
Tappice  Alt. of Tappis
Tappis  See Tapish.
Tappit  A hen having a tuft of feathers on her head.
Tappit  A measuring pot holding one quart (according to some, three quarts); -- so called from a knob on the lid, thought to resemble a crested hen.
Taproom  A room where liquors are kept on tap; a barroom.
Taproot  The root of a plant which penetrates the earth directly downward to a considerable depth without dividing.
Tapster  One whose business is to tap or draw ale or other liquor.
Taqua-nut  A Central American name for the ivory nut.
Tar  A sailor; a seaman.
Tar  A thick, black, viscous liquid obtained by the distillation of wood, coal, etc., and having a varied composition according to the temperature and material employed in obtaining it.
Tarred  of Tar
Tarring  of Tar
Tar  To smear with tar, or as with tar; as, to tar ropes; to tar cloth.
Taranis  A Celtic divinity, regarded as the evil principle, but confounded by the Romans with Jupiter.
Tarantass  A low four-wheeled carriage used in Russia. The carriage box rests on two long, springy poles which run from the fore to the hind axletree. When snow falls, the wheels are taken off, and the body is mounted on a sledge.
Tarantella  A rapid and delirious sort of Neapolitan dance in 6-8 time, which moves in whirling triplets; -- so called from a popular notion of its being a remedy against the poisonous bite of the tarantula. Some derive its name from Taranto in Apulia.
Tarantella  Music suited to such a dance.
Tarantism  A nervous affection producing melancholy, stupor, and an uncontrollable desire to dance. It was supposed to be produced by the bite of the tarantula, and considered to be incapable of cure except by protracted dancing to appropriate music.
Tarantulas  of Tarantula
Tarantulae  of Tarantula
Tarantula  Any one of several species of large spiders, popularly supposed to be very venomous, especially the European species (Tarantula apuliae). The tarantulas of Texas and adjacent countries are large species of Mygale.
Tarantulated  Bitten by a tarantula; affected with tarantism.
Tarbogan  See Toboggan.
Tarboosh  A red cap worn by Turks and other Eastern nations, sometimes alone and sometimes swathed with linen or other stuff to make a turban. See Fez.
Tardation  The act of retarding, or delaying; retardation.
Tardigrada  A tribe of edentates comprising the sloths. They are noted for the slowness of their movements when on the ground. See Sloth, 3.
Tardigrada  An order of minute aquatic arachnids; -- called also bear animalcules, sloth animalcules, and water bears.
Tardigrade  Moving or stepping slowly; slow-paced.
Tardigrade  Of or pertaining to the Tardigrada.
Tardigrade  One of the Tardigrada.
Tardigradous  Moving slowly; slow-paced.
Tardily  In a tardy manner; slowly.
Tardiness  The quality or state of being tardy.
Tarditation  Tardiness.
Tardity  Slowness; tardiness.
Tardo  Slow; -- a direction to perform a passage slowly.
Tardo  A sloth.
Tardy  Moving with a slow pace or motion; slow; not swift.
Tardy  Not being inseason; late; dilatory; -- opposed to prompt; as, to be tardy in one's payments.
Tardy  Unwary; unready.
Tardy  Criminal; guilty.
Tardy  To make tardy.
Tare  Tore.
Tare  A weed that grows among wheat and other grain; -- alleged by modern naturalists to be the Lolium temulentum, or darnel.
Tare  A name of several climbing or diffuse leguminous herbs of the genus Vicia; especially, the V. sativa, sometimes grown for fodder.
Tare  Deficientcy in the weight or quantity of goods by reason of the weight of the cask, bag, or whatever contains the commodity, and is weighed with it; hence, the allowance or abatement of a certain weight or quantity which the seller makes to the buyer on account of the weight of such cask, bag, etc.
Tared  of Tare
Taring  of Tare
Tare  To ascertain or mark the tare of (goods).
Tared  Weighed; determined; reduced to equal or standard weight; as, tared filter papers, used in weighing precipitates.
Tarente  A harmless lizard of the Gecko family (Platydactylus Mauritianicus) found in Southern Europe and adjacent countries, especially among old walls and ruins.
Tarentism  See Tarantism.
Tarentula  See Tarantula.
Targe  A shield or target.
Target  A kind of small shield or buckler, used as a defensive weapon in war.
Target  A butt or mark to shoot at, as for practice, or to test the accuracy of a firearm, or the force of a projectile.
Target  The pattern or arrangement of a series of hits made by a marksman on a butt or mark; as, he made a good target.
Target  The sliding crosspiece, or vane, on a leveling staff.
Target  A conspicuous disk attached to a switch lever to show its position, or for use as a signal.
Targeted  Furnished, armed, or protected, with a target.
Targeteer  One who is armed with a target or shield.
Targums  of Targum
Targumim  of Targum
Targum  A translation or paraphrase of some portion of the Old Testament Scriptures in the Chaldee or Aramaic language or dialect.
Targumist  The writer of a Targum; one versed in the Targums.
Tariff  A schedule, system, or scheme of duties imposed by the government of a country upon goods imported or exported; as, a revenue tariff; a protective tariff; Clay's compromise tariff. (U. S. 1833).
Tariff  The duty, or rate of duty, so imposed; as, the tariff on wool; a tariff of two cents a pound.
Tariff  Any schedule or system of rates, changes, etc.; as, a tariff of fees, or of railroad fares.
Tariffed  of Tariff
Tariffing  of Tariff
Tariff  To make a list of duties on, as goods.
Tarin  The siskin.
Taring  The common tern; -- called also tarret, and tarrock.
Tarlatan  A kind of thin, transparent muslin, used for dresses.
Tarn  A mountain lake or pool.
Tarnished  of Tarnish
Tarnishing  of Tarnish
Tarnish  To soil, or change the appearance of, especially by an alternation induced by the air, or by dust, or the like; to diminish, dull, or destroy the luster of; to sully; as, to tarnish a metal; to tarnish gilding; to tarnish the purity of color.
Tarnish  To lose luster; to become dull; as, gilding will tarnish in a foul air.
Tarnish  The quality or state of being tarnished; stain; soil; blemish.
Tarnish  A thin film on the surface of a metal, usually due to a slight alteration of the original color; as, the steel tarnish in columbite.
Tarnisher  One who, or that which, tarnishes.
Taro  A name for several aroid plants (Colocasia antiquorum, var. esculenta, Colocasia macrorhiza, etc.), and their rootstocks. They have large ovate-sagittate leaves and large fleshy rootstocks, which are cooked and used for food in tropical countries.
Tarot  A game of cards; -- called also taroc.
Tarpan  A wild horse found in the region of the Caspian Sea.
Tarpaulin  A piece of canvas covered with tar or a waterproof composition, used for covering the hatches of a ship, hammocks, boats, etc.
Tarpaulin  A hat made of, or covered with, painted or tarred cloth, worn by sailors and others.
Tarpaulin  Hence, a sailor; a seaman; a tar.
Tarpon  Same as Tarpum.
Tarpum  A very large marine fish (Megapolis Atlanticus) of the Southern United States and the West Indies. It often becomes six or more feet in length, and has large silvery scales. The scales are a staple article of trade, and are used in fancywork. Called also tarpon, sabalo, savanilla, silverfish, and jewfish.
Tarquinish  Like a Tarquin, a king of ancient Rome; proud; haughty; overbearing.
Tarrace  See Trass.
Tarragon  A plant of the genus Artemisa (A. dracunculus), much used in France for flavoring vinegar.
Tarras  See Trass.
Tarre  To set on, as a dog; to incite.
Tarriance  The act or time of tarrying; delay; lateness.
Tarrier  One who, or that which, tarries.
Tarrier  A kind of dig; a terrier.
Tarrock  The young of the kittiwake gull before the first molt.
Tarrock  The common guillemot.
Tarrock  The common tern.
Tarry  Consisting of, or covered with, tar; like tar.
Tarried  of Tarry
Tarrying  of Tarry
Tarry  To stay or remain behind; to wait.
Tarry  To delay; to put off going or coming; to loiter.
Tarry  To stay; to abide; to continue; to lodge.
Tarry  To delay; to defer; to put off.
Tarry  To wait for; to stay or stop for.
Tarry  Stay; stop; delay.
Tarsal  Of or pertaining to the tarsus (either of the foot or eye).
Tarsal  A tarsal bone or cartilage; a tarsale.
Tarsal  Same as Tercel.
Tarsalia  of Tarsale
Tarsale  One of the bones or cartilages of the tarsus; esp., one of the series articulating with the metatarsals.
Tarse  The male falcon.
Tarse  tarsus.
Tarsectomy  The operation of excising one or more of the bones of the tarsus.
Tarsel  A male hawk. See Tercel.
Tarsi  pl. of Tarsus.
Tarsia  Alt. of Tarsiatura
Tarsiatura  A kind of mosaic in woodwork, much employed in Italy in the fifteenth century and later, in which scrolls and arabesques, and sometimes architectural scenes, landscapes, fruits, flowers, and the like, were produced by inlaying pieces of wood of different colors and shades into panels usually of walnut wood.
Tarsier  See Tarsius.
Tarsius  A genus of nocturnal lemurine mammals having very large eyes and ears, a long tail, and very long proximal tarsal bones; -- called also malmag, spectral lemur, podji, and tarsier.
Tarso-  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tarsus; as, tarsometatarsus.
Tarsometatarsal  Of or pertaining to both the tarsus and metatarsus; as, the tarsometatarsal articulations.
Tarsometatarsal  Of or pertaining to the tarsometatarsus.
Tarsometatarsi  of Tarsometatarsus
Tarsometatarsus  The large bone next the foot in the leg of a bird. It is formed by the union of the distal part of the tarsus with the metatarsus.
Tarsorrhaphy  An operation to diminish the size of the opening between eyelids when enlarged by surrounding cicatrices.
Tarsotomy  The operation of cutting or removing the tarsal cartilages.
Tarsi  of Tarsus
Tarsus  The ankle; the bones or cartilages of the part of the foot between the metatarsus and the leg, consisting in man of seven short bones.
Tarsus  A plate of dense connective tissue or cartilage in the eyelid of man and many animals; -- called also tarsal cartilage, and tarsal plate.
Tarsus  The foot of an insect or a crustacean. It usually consists of form two to five joints.
Tart  Sharp to the taste; acid; sour; as, a tart apple.
Tart  Fig.: Sharp; keen; severe; as, a tart reply; tart language; a tart rebuke.
Tart  A species of small open pie, or piece of pastry, containing jelly or conserve; a sort of fruit pie.
Tartan  Woolen cloth, checkered or crossbarred with narrow bands of various colors, much worn in the Highlands of Scotland; hence, any pattern of tartan; also, other material of a similar pattern.
Tartan  A small coasting vessel, used in the Mediterranean, having one mast carrying large leteen sail, and a bowsprit with staysail or jib.
Tartar  A reddish crust or sediment in wine casks, consisting essentially of crude cream of tartar, and used in marking pure cream of tartar, tartaric acid, potassium carbonate, black flux, etc., and, in dyeing, as a mordant for woolen goods; -- called also argol, wine stone, etc.
Tartar  A correction which often incrusts the teeth, consisting of salivary mucus, animal matter, and phosphate of lime.
Tartar  A native or inhabitant of Tartary in Asia; a member of any one of numerous tribes, chiefly Moslem, of Turkish origin, inhabiting the Russian Europe; -- written also, more correctly but less usually, Tatar.
Tartar  A person of a keen, irritable temper.
Tartar  Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars.
Tartar  See Tartarus.
Tartarated  Tartrated.
Tartarean  Alt. of Tartareous
Tartareous  Of or pertaining to Tartarus; hellish.
Tartareous  Consisting of tartar; of the nature of tartar.
Tartareous  Having the surface rough and crumbling; as, many lichens are tartareous.
Tartarian  Alt. of Tartaric
Tartaric  Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars.
Tartarian  The name of some kinds of cherries, as the Black Tartarian, or the White Tartarian.
Tartaric  Of or pertaining to tartar; derived from, or resembling, tartar.
Tartarine  Potassium carbonate, obtained by the incineration of tartar.
Tartarized  of Tartarize
Tartarizing  of Tartarize
Tartarize  To impregnate with, or subject to the action of, tartar.
Tartarize  To cause to resemble the Tartars and their civilization, as by conquest.
Tartarous  Containing tartar; consisting of tartar, or partaking of its qualities; tartareous.
Tartarous  Resembling, or characteristic of, a Tartar; ill-natured; irritable.
Tartarum  See 1st Tartar.
Tartarus  The infernal regions, described in the Iliad as situated as far below Hades as heaven is above the earth, and by later writers as the place of punishment for the spirits of the wicked. By the later poets, also, the name is often used synonymously with Hades, or the Lower World in general.
Tartary  Tartarus.
Tartini's  See the Note under Tone.
Tartish  Somewhat tart.
Tartlet  A small tart.
Tartly  In a tart manner; with acidity.
Tartness  The quality or state of being tart.
Tartralic  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a white amorphous deliquescent substance, C8H10O11; -- called also ditartaric, tartrilic, or tartrylic acid.
Tartramate  A salt of tartramic acid.
Tartramic  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is the primary acid amide derivative of tartaric acid.
Tartramide  An acid amide derivative of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Tartrate  A salt of tartaric acid.
Tartrated  Containing, or derived from, tartar; combined with tartaric acid.
Tartrazine  An artificial dyestuff obtained as an orange-yellow powder, and regarded as a phenyl hydrazine derivative of tartaric and sulphonic acids.
Tartrelic  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anhydride, C4H4O5, of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline deliquescent substance.
Tartro-  A combining form (also used adjectively) used in chemistry to denote the presence of tartar or of some of its compounds or derivatives.
Tartronate  A salt of tartronic acid.
Tartronic  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also hydroxy malonic acid) obtained, by reducing mesoxalic acid, as a white crystalline substance.
Tartronyl  A hypothetical radical constituting the characteristic residue of tartronic acid and certain of its derivatives.
Tartrovinic  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain acid composed of tartaric acid in combination with ethyl, and now called ethyltartaric acid.
Tartuffe  Alt. of Tartufe
Tartufe  A hypocritical devotee. See the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.
Tartuffish  Alt. of Tartufish
Tartufish  Like a tartuffe; precise; hypocritical.
Tarweed  A name given to several resinous-glandular composite plants of California, esp. to the species of Grindelia, Hemizonia, and Madia.
Tas  A heap.
Tas  To tassel.
Tasco  A kind of clay for making melting pots.
Tasimer  An instrument for detecting or measuring minute extension or movements of solid bodies. It consists essentially of a small rod, disk, or button of carbon, forming part of an electrical circuit, the resistance of which, being varied by the changes of pressure produced by the movements of the object to be measured, causes variations in the strength of the current, which variations are indicated by a sensitive galvanometer. It is also used for measuring minute changes of temperature.
Task  Labor or study imposed by another, often in a definite quantity or amount.
Task  Business; employment; undertaking; labor.
Tasked  of Task
Tasking  of Task
Task  To impose a task upon; to assign a definite amount of business, labor, or duty to.
Task  To oppress with severe or excessive burdens; to tax.
Task  To charge; to tax; as with a fault.
Tasker  One who imposes a task.
Tasker  One who performs a task, as a day-laborer.
Tasker  A laborer who receives his wages in kind.
Taskmaster  One who imposes a task, or burdens another with labor; one whose duty is to assign tasks; an overseer.
Taskwork  Work done as a task; also, work done by the job; piecework.
Taslet  A piece of armor formerly worn to guard the things; a tasse.
Tasmanian  Of or pertaining to Tasmania, or Van Diemen's Land. -- n. A native or inhabitant of Tasmania; specifically (Ethnol.), in the plural, the race of men that formerly inhabited Tasmania, but is now extinct.
Tasse  A piece of armor for the thighs, forming an appendage to the ancient corselet.
Tassel  A male hawk. See Tercel.
Tassel  A kind of bur used in dressing cloth; a teasel.
Tassel  A pendent ornament, attached to the corners of cushions, to curtains, and the like, ending in a tuft of loose threads or cords.
Tassel  The flower or head of some plants, esp. when pendent.
Tassel  A narrow silk ribbon, or the like, sewed to a book to be put between the leaves.
Uakari  Same as Ouakari.
Uberous  Fruitful; copious; abundant; plentiful.
Uberty  Fruitfulness; copiousness; abundance; plenty.
Ubication  Alt. of Ubiety
Ubiety  The quality or state of being in a place; local relation; position or location; whereness.
Ubiquarian  Ubiquitous.
Ubiquitist  Alt. of Ubiquitarian
Ubiquitarian  One of a school of Lutheran divines which held that the body of Christ is present everywhere, and especially in the eucharist, in virtue of his omnipresence. Called also ubiquitist, and ubiquitary.
Ubiquitariness  Quality or state of being ubiquitary, or ubiquitous.
Ubiquitary  Ubiquitous.
Ubiquitaries  of Ubiquitary
Ubiquitary  One who exists everywhere.
Ubiquitary  A ubiquist.
Ubiquitist  Same as Ubiquist.
Ubiquitous  Existing or being everywhere, or in all places, at the same time; omnipresent.
Ubiquity  Existence everywhere, or in places, at the same time; omnipresence; as, the ubiquity of God is not disputed by those who admit his existence.
Ubiquity  The doctrine, as formulated by Luther, that Christ's glorified body is omnipresent.
Uchees  A tribe of North American Indians belonging to the Creek confederation.
Uckewallist  One of a sect of rigid Anabaptists, which originated in 1637, and whose tenets were essentially the same as those of the Mennonists. In addition, however, they held that Judas and the murderers of Christ were saved. So called from the founder of the sect, Ucke Wallis, a native of Friesland.
Udal  In Shetland and Orkney, a freehold; property held by udal, or allodial, right.
Udal  Allodial; -- a term used in Finland, Shetland, and Orkney. See Allodial.
Udaler  Alt. of Udalman
Udalman  In the Shetland and Orkney Islands, one who holds property by udal, or allodial, right.
Udder  The glandular organ in which milk is secreted and stored; -- popularly called the bag in cows and other quadrupeds. See Mamma.
Udder  One of the breasts of a woman.
Uddered  Having an udder or udders.
Udderless  Destitute or deprived of an udder.
Udderless  Hence, without mother's milk; motherless; as, udderless lambs.
Udometer  A rain gauge.
Ugh  An exclamation expressive of disgust, horror, or recoil. Its utterance is usually accompanied by a shudder.
Uglesome  Ugly.
Uglify  To disfigure; to make ugly.
Uglily  In an ugly manner; with deformity.
Ugliness  The quality or state of being ugly.
Ugly  Offensive to the sight; contrary to beauty; being of disagreeable or loathsome aspect; unsightly; repulsive; deformed.
Ugly  Ill-natured; crossgrained; quarrelsome; as, an ugly temper; to feel ugly.
Ugly  Unpleasant; disagreeable; likely to cause trouble or loss; as, an ugly rumor; an ugly customer.
Ugly  A shade for the face, projecting from the bonnet.
Ugly  To make ugly.
Ugrian  A Mongolian race, ancestors of the Finns.
Ugsome  Ugly; offensive; loathsome.
Uhlan  One of a certain description of militia among the Tartars.
Uhlan  One of a kind of light cavalry of Tartaric origin, first introduced into European armies in Poland. They are armed with lances, pistols, and sabers, and are employed chiefly as skirmishers.
Uintatherium  An extinct genus of large Eocene ungulates allied to Dinoceras. This name is sometimes used for nearly all the known species of the group. See Dinoceras.
Ukase  In Russia, a published proclamation or imperial order, having the force of law.
Ulan  See Uhlan.
Ularburong  A large East Indian nocturnal tree snake (Dipsas dendrophila). It is not venomous.
Ulcer  A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, discharging purulent matter, found on a surface, especially one of the natural surfaces of the body, and originating generally in a constitutional disorder; a sore discharging pus. It is distinguished from an abscess, which has its beginning, at least, in the depth of the tissues.
Ulcer  Fig.: Anything that festers and corrupts like an open sore; a vice in character.
Ulcer  To ulcerate.
Ulcerable  Capable of ulcerating.
Ulcerated  of Ulcerate
Ulcerating  of Ulcerate
Ulcerate  To be formed into an ulcer; to become ulcerous.
Ulcerate  To affect with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers.
Ulcerated  Affected with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers; as, an ulcerated sore throat.
Ulceration  The process of forming an ulcer, or of becoming ulcerous; the state of being ulcerated; also, an ulcer.
Ulcerative  Of or pertaining to ulcers; as, an ulcerative process.
Ulcered  Ulcerous; ulcerated.
Ulcerous  Having the nature or character of an ulcer; discharging purulent or other matter.
Ulcerous  Affected with an ulcer or ulcers; ulcerated.
Ulcuscle  Alt. of Ulcuscule
Ulcuscule  A little ulcer.
Ule  A Mexican and Central American tree (Castilloa elastica and C. Markhamiana) related to the breadfruit tree. Its milky juice contains caoutchouc. Called also ule tree.
Ulema  A college or corporation in Turkey composed of the hierarchy, namely, the imams, or ministers of religion, the muftis, or doctors of law, and the cadis, or administrators of justice.
Ulexite  A mineral occurring in white rounded crystalline masses. It is a hydrous borate of lime and soda.
Uliginose  Alt. of Uliginous
Uliginous  Muddy; oozy; slimy; also, growing in muddy places.
Ullage  The amount which a vessel, as a cask, of liquor lacks of being full; wantage; deficiency.
Ullet  A European owl (Syrnium aluco) of a tawny color; -- called also uluia.
Ullmannite  A brittle mineral of a steel-gray color and metallic luster, containing antimony, arsenic, sulphur, and nickel.
Ulluco  See Melluc/o.
Ulmaceous  Of or pertaining to a suborder of urticaceous plants, of which the elm is the type.
Ulmate  A salt of ulmic acid.
Ulmic  Pertaining to ulmin; designating an acid obtained from ulmin.
Ulmin  A brown amorphous substance found in decaying vegetation. Cf. Humin.
Ulmus  A genus of trees including the elm.
Ulna  The postaxial bone of the forearm, or branchium, corresponding to the fibula of the hind limb. See Radius.
Ulna  An ell; also, a yard.
Ulnage  Measurement by the ell; alnage.
Ulnar  Of or pertaining to the ulna, or the elbow; as, the ulnar nerve.
Ulnaria  of Ulnare
Ulnare  One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus, which articulates with the ulna and corresponds to the cuneiform in man.
Ulodendron  A genus of fossil trees.
Ulonata  A division of insects nearly equivalent to the true Orthoptera.
Ulotrichan  Of or pertaining to the Ulotrichi.
Ulotrichan  One of the Ulotrichi.
Ulotrichi  The division of mankind which embraces the races having woolly or crispy hair. Cf. Leiotrichi.
Ulotrichous  Having woolly or crispy hair; -- opposed to leiotrichous.
Ulster  A long, loose overcoat, worn by men and women, originally made of frieze from Ulster, Ireland.
Ulterior  Situated beyond, or on the farther side; thither; -- correlative with hither.
Ulterior  Further; remoter; more distant; succeeding; as, ulterior demands or propositions; ulterior views; what ulterior measures will be adopted is uncertain.
Ulterior  Ulterior side or part.
Ulteriorly  More distantly or remotely.
Ultima  Most remote; furthest; final; last.
Ultima  The last syllable of a word.
Ultimate  Farthest; most remote in space or time; extreme; last; final.
Ultimate  Last in a train of progression or consequences; tended toward by all that precedes; arrived at, as the last result; final.
Ultimate  Incapable of further analysis; incapable of further division or separation; constituent; elemental; as, an ultimate constituent of matter.
Ultimated  of Ultimate
Ultimating  of Ultimate
Ultimate  To come or bring to an end; to eventuate; to end.
Ultimate  To come or bring into use or practice.
Ultimately  As a final consequence; at last; in the end; as, afflictions often tend to correct immoral habits, and ultimately prove blessings.
Ultimation  State of being ultimate; that which is ultimate, or final; ultimatum.
Ultimatums  of Ultimatum
Ultimata  of Ultimatum
Ultimatum  A final proposition, concession, or condition; especially, the final propositions, conditions, or terms, offered by either of the parties in a diplomatic negotiation; the most favorable terms a negotiator can offer, the rejection of which usually puts an end to the hesitation.
Ultime  Ultimate; final.
Ultimity  The last stage or consequence; finality.
Ultimo  In the month immediately preceding the present; as, on the 1st ultimo; -- usually abbreviated to ult. Cf. Proximo.
Ultion  The act of taking vengeance; revenge.
Ultra-  A prefix from the Latin ultra beyond (see Ulterior), having in composition the signification beyond, on the other side, chiefly when joined with words expressing relations of place; as, ultramarine, ultramontane, ultramundane, ultratropical, etc. In other relations it has the sense of excessively, exceedingly, beyond what is common, natural, right, or proper; as, ultraconservative; ultrademocratic, ultradespotic, ultraliberal, ultraradical, etc.
Ultra  Going beyond others, or beyond due limit; extreme; fanatical; uncompromising; as, an ultra reformer; ultra measures.
Ultra  One who advocates extreme measures; an ultraist; an extremist; a radical.
Ultrage  Outrage.
Ultraism  The principles of those who advocate extreme measures, as radical reform, and the like.
Ultraist  One who pushes a principle or measure to extremes; an extremist; a radical; an ultra.
Ultramarine  Situated or being beyond the sea.
Ultramarine  A blue pigment formerly obtained by powdering lapis lazuli, but now produced in large quantities by fusing together silica, alumina, soda, and sulphur, thus forming a glass, colored blue by the sodium polysulphides made in the fusion. Also used adjectively.
Ultramontane  Being beyond the mountains; specifically, being beyond the Alps, in respect to the one who speaks.
Ultramontane  One who resides beyond the mountains, especially beyond the Alps; a foreigner.
Ultramontane  One who maintains extreme views favoring the pope's supremacy. See Ultramontanism.
Ultramontanism  The principles of those within the Roman Catholic Church who maintain extreme views favoring the pope's supremacy; -- so used by those living north of the Alps in reference to the Italians; -- rarely used in an opposite sense, as referring to the views of those living north of the Alps and opposed to the papal claims. Cf. Gallicanism.
Ultramontanist  One who upholds ultramontanism.
Ultramundane  Being beyond the world, or beyond the limits of our system.
Ultrared  Situated beyond or below the red rays; as, the ultrated rays of the spectrum, which are less refrangible than the red.
Ultratropical  Situated beyond, or outside of, the tropics; extratropical; also, having an excessively tropical temperature; warmer than the tropics.
Ultraviolet  Lying outside the visible spectrum at its violet end; -- said of rays more refrangible than the extreme violet rays of the spectrum.
Ultra  Beyond power; transcending authority; -- a phrase used frequently in relation to acts or enactments by corporations in excess of their chartered or statutory rights.
Ultrazodiacal  Outside the zodiac; being in that part of the heavens that is more than eight degrees from the ecliptic; as, ultrazodiacal planets, that is, those planets which in part of their orbits go beyond the zodiac.
Ultroneous  Spontaneous; voluntary.
Ulula  A genus of owls including the great gray owl (Ulula cinerea) of Arctic America, and other similar species. See Illust. of Owl.
Ululant  Howling; wailing.
Ululated  of Ululate
Ululating  of Ululate
Ululate  To howl, as a dog or a wolf; to wail; as, ululating jackals.
Ululation  A howling, as of a dog or wolf; a wailing.
Ulva  A genus of thin papery bright green seaweeds including the kinds called sea lettuce.
Umbe  About.
Umbecast  To cast about; to consider; to ponder.
Umbel  A kind of flower cluster in which the flower stalks radiate from a common point, as in the carrot and milkweed. It is simple or compound; in the latter case, each peduncle bears another little umbel, called umbellet, or umbellule.
Umbellar  Of or pertaining to an umbel; having the form of an umbel.
Umbellate  Alt. of Umbellated
Umbellated  Bearing umbels; pertaining to an umbel; umbel-like; as, umbellate plants or flowers.
Umbellet  A small or partial umbel; an umbellule.
Umbellic  Pertaining to, or obtained from, certain umbelliferous plants; as, umbellic acid.
Umbellifer  A plant producing an umbel or umbels.
Umbelliferone  A tasteless white crystalline substance, C9H6O3, found in the bark of a certain plant (Daphne Mezereum), and also obtained by the distillation of certain gums from the Umbelliferae, as galbanum, asafetida, etc. It is analogous to coumarin. Called also hydroxy-coumarin.
Umbelliferous  Producing umbels.
Umbelliferous  Of or pertaining to a natural order (Umbelliferae) of plants, of which the parsley, carrot, parsnip, and fennel are well-known examples.
Umbellularia  A genus of deep-sea alcyonaria consisting of a cluster of large flowerlike polyps situated at the summit of a long, slender stem which stands upright in the mud, supported by a bulbous base.
Umbellule  An umbellet.
Umber  A brown or reddish pigment used in both oil and water colors, obtained from certain natural clays variously colored by the oxides of iron and manganese. It is commonly heated or burned before being used, and is then called burnt umber; when not heated, it is called raw umber. See Burnt umber, below.
Umber  An umbrere.
Umber  See Grayling, 1.
Umber  An African wading bird (Scopus umbretta) allied to the storks and herons. It is dull dusky brown, and has a large occipital crest. Called also umbrette, umbre, and umber bird.
Umber  Of or pertaining to umber; resembling umber; olive-brown; dark brown; dark; dusky.
Umber  To color with umber; to shade or darken; as, to umber over one's face.
Umbery  Of or pertaining to umber; like umber; as, umbery gold.
Umbilic  The navel; the center.
Umbilic  An umbilicus. See Umbilicus, 5 (b).
Umbilic  See Umbilical, 1.
Umbilical  Of or pertaining to an umbilicus, or umbilical cord; umbilic.
Umbilical  Pertaining to the center; central.
Umbilicate  Alt. of Umbilicated
Umbilicated  Depressed in the middle, like a navel, as a flower, fruit, or leaf; navel-shaped; having an umbilicus; as, an umbilicated smallpox vesicle.
Umbilicated  Supported by a stalk at the central point.
Umbilication  A slight, navel-like depression, or dimpling, of the center of a rounded body; as, the umbilication of a smallpox vesicle; also, the condition of being umbilicated.
Umbilicus  The depression, or mark, in the median line of the abdomen, which indicates the point where the umbilical cord separated from the fetus; the navel.
Umbilicus  An ornamented or painted ball or boss fastened at each end of the stick on which manuscripts were rolled.
Umbilicus  The hilum.
Umbilicus  A depression or opening in the center of the base of many spiral shells.
Umbilicus  Either one of the two apertures in the calamus of a feather.
Umbilicus  One of foci of an ellipse, or other curve.
Umbilicus  A point of a surface at which the curvatures of the normal sections are all equal to each other. A sphere may be osculatory to the surface in every direction at an umbilicus. Called also umbilic.
Umble  A pie made of umbles. See To eat humble pie, under Humble.
Umbles  The entrails and coarser parts of a deer; hence, sometimes, entrails, in general.
Umbones  of Umbo
Umbos  of Umbo
Umbo  The boss of a shield, at or near the middle, and usually projecting, sometimes in a sharp spike.
Umbo  A boss, or rounded elevation, or a corresponding depression, in a palate, disk, or membrane; as, the umbo in the integument of the larvae of echinoderms or in the tympanic membrane of the ear.
Umbo  One of the lateral prominence just above the hinge of a bivalve shell.
Umbonate  Alt. of Umbonated
Umbonated  Having a conical or rounded projection or protuberance, like a boss.
Umbrae  of Umbra
Umbra  The conical shadow projected from a planet or satellite, on the side opposite to the sun, within which a spectator could see no portion of the sun's disk; -- used in contradistinction from penumbra. See Penumbra.
Umbra  The central dark portion, or nucleus, of a sun spot.
Umbra  The fainter part of a sun spot; -- now more commonly called penumbra.
Umbra  Any one of several species of sciaenoid food fishes of the genus Umbrina, especially the Mediterranean species (U. cirrhosa), which is highly esteemed as a market fish; -- called also ombre, and umbrine.
Umbraculiferous  Bearing something like an open umbrella.
Umbraculiform  Having the form of anything that serves to shade, as a tree top, an umbrella, and the like; specifically (Bot.), having the form of an umbrella; umbrella-shaped.
Umbrage  Shade; shadow; obscurity; hence, that which affords a shade, as a screen of trees or foliage.
Umbrage  Shadowy resemblance; shadow.
Umbrage  The feeling of being overshadowed; jealousy of another, as standing in one's light or way; hence, suspicion of injury or wrong; offense; resentment.
Umbrageous  Forming or affording a shade; shady; shaded; as, umbrageous trees or foliage.
Umbrageous  Not easily perceived, as if from being darkened or shaded; obscure.
Umbrageous  Feeling jealousy or umbrage; taking, or disposed to take, umbrage; suspicious.
Umbrate  To shade; to shadow; to foreshadow.
Umbratic  Alt. of Umbratical
Umbratical  Of or pertaining to the shade or darkness; shadowy; unreal; secluded; retired.
Umbratile  Umbratic.
Umbratious  Suspicious; captious; disposed to take umbrage.
Umbre  See Umber.
Umbrel  An umbrella.
Umbrella  A shade, screen, or guard, carried in the hand for sheltering the person from the rays of the sun, or from rain or snow. It is formed of silk, cotton, or other fabric, extended on strips of whalebone, steel, or other elastic material, inserted, or fastened to, a rod or stick by means of pivots or hinges, in such a way as to allow of being opened and closed with ease. See Parasol.
Umbrella  The umbrellalike disk, or swimming bell, of a jellyfish.
Umbrella  Any marine tectibranchiate gastropod of the genus Umbrella, having an umbrella-shaped shell; -- called also umbrella shell.
Umbrere  Alt. of Umbriere
Umbriere  In ancient armor, a visor, or projection like the peak of a cap, to which a face guard was sometimes attached. This was sometimes fixed, and sometimes moved freely upon the helmet and could be raised like the beaver. Called also umber, and umbril.
Umbrette  See Umber, 4.
Umbriferous  Casting or making a shade; umbrageous.
Umbril  A umbrere.
Umbrine  See Umbra, 2.
Umbrose  Shady; umbrageous.
Umbrosity  The quality or state of being umbrose; shadiness.
Umhofo  An African two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus, / Rhinoceros, simus); -- called also chukuru, and white rhinoceros.
Umlaut  The euphonic modification of a root vowel sound by the influence of a, u, or especially i, in the syllable which formerly followed.
Umlauted  Having the umlaut; as, umlauted vowels.
Umpirage  The office of an umpire; the power, right, or authority of an umpire to decide.
Umpirage  The act of umpiring; arbitrament.
Umpire  A person to whose sole decision a controversy or question between parties is referred; especially, one chosen to see that the rules of a game, as cricket, baseball, or the like, are strictly observed.
Umpire  A third person, who is to decide a controversy or question submitted to arbitrators in case of their disagreement.
Umpired  of Umpire
Umpiring  of Umpire
Umpire  To decide as umpire; to arbitrate; to settle, as a dispute.
Umpire  To perform the duties of umpire in or for; as, to umpire a game.
Umpire  To act as umpire or arbitrator.
Umpireship  Umpirage; arbitrament.
Umpress  Female umpire.
Umquhile  Some time ago; formerly.
Umquhile  Former.
Un-  An inseparable verbal prefix or particle. It is prefixed: (a) To verbs to express the contrary, and not the simple negative, of the action of the verb to which it is prefixed; as in uncoil, undo, unfold. (b) To nouns to form verbs expressing privation of the thing, quality, or state expressed by the noun, or separation from it; as in unchild, unsex. Sometimes particles and participial adjectives formed with this prefix coincide in form with compounds of the negative prefix un- (see 2d Un-); as in undone (from undo), meaning unfastened, ruined; and undone (from 2d un- and done) meaning not done, not finished. Un- is sometimes used with an intensive force merely; as in unloose.
Un-  An inseparable prefix, or particle, signifying not; in-; non-. In- is prefixed mostly to words of Latin origin, or else to words formed by Latin suffixes; un- is of much wider application, and is attached at will to almost any adjective, or participle used adjectively, or adverb, from which it may be desired to form a corresponding negative adjective or adverb, and is also, but less freely, prefixed to nouns. Un- sometimes has merely an intensive force; as in unmerciless, unremorseless.
Un-  Un- is prefixed to adjectives, or to words used adjectively.
Un-  To adjectives, to denote the absence of the quality designated by the adjective
Un-  To past particles, or to adjectives formed after the analogy of past particles, to indicate the absence of the condition or state expressed by them
Un-  To present particles which come from intransitive verbs, or are themselves employed as adjectives, to mark the absence of the activity, disposition, or condition implied by the participle; as, - ---- and the like.
Un-  Those which have acquired an opposed or contrary, instead of a merely negative, meaning; as, unfriendly, ungraceful, unpalatable, unquiet, and the like; or else an intensive sense more than a prefixed not would express; as, unending, unparalleled, undisciplined, undoubted, unsafe, and the like.
Un-  Those which have the value of independent words, inasmuch as the simple words are either not used at all, or are rarely, or at least much less frequently, used; as, unavoidable, unconscionable, undeniable, unspeakable, unprecedented, unruly, and the like; or inasmuch as they are used in a different sense from the usual meaning of the primitive, or especially in one of the significations of the latter; as, unaccountable, unalloyed, unbelieving, unpretending, unreserved, and the like; or inasmuch as they are so frequently and familiarly used that they are hardly felt to be of negative origin; as, uncertain, uneven, and the like.
Un-  Those which are anomalous, provincial, or, for some other reason, not desirable to be used, and are so indicated; as, unpure for impure, unsatisfaction for dissatisfaction, unexpressible for inexpressible, and the like.
Un-  Un- is prefixed to nouns to express the absence of, or the contrary of, that which the noun signifies; as, unbelief, unfaith, unhealth, unrest, untruth, and the like.
Unability  Inability.
Unable  Not able; not having sufficient strength, means, knowledge, skill, or the like; impotent' weak; helpless; incapable; -- now usually followed by an infinitive or an adverbial phrase; as, unable for work; unable to bear fatigue.
Unabled  Disabled.
Unableness  Inability.
Una  The English name for a catboat; -- so called because Una was the name of the first boat of this kind taken to England.
Unabridged  Not abridged, or shortened; full; complete; entire; whole.
Unabsorbable  Not absorbable; specifically (Physiol.), not capable of absorption; unable to pass by osmosis into the circulating blood; as, the unabsorbable portion of food.
Unacceptability  The quality of being unacceptable; unacceptableness.
Unacceptable  Not acceptable; not pleasing; not welcome; unpleasant; disagreeable; displeasing; offensive.
Unaccessible  Inaccessible.
Unaccomplished  Not accomplished or performed; unfinished; also, deficient in accomplishment; unrefined.
Unaccomplishment  The state of being unaccomplished.
Unaccountability  The quality or state of being unaccountable.
Unaccountable  Not accountable or responsible; free from control.
Unaccountable  Not to be accounted for; inexplicable; not consonant with reason or rule; strange; mysterious.
Unaccurate  Inaccurate.
Unaccurateness  Inaccuracy.
Unaccustomed  Not used; not habituated; unfamiliar; unused; -- which to.
Unaccustomed  Not usual; uncommon; strange; new.
Unacquaintance  The quality or state of being unacquainted; want of acquaintance; ignorance.
Unacquainted  Not acquainted.
Unacquainted  Not usual; unfamiliar; strange.
Unacquaintedness  Unacquaintance.
Unactive  Inactive; listless.
Unactive  To render inactive or listless.
Unactiveness  Inactivity.
Unadmissible  Alt. of Unadmittable
Unadmittable  Inadmissible.
Unadulterate  Alt. of Unadulterated
Unadulterated  Not adulterated; pure.
Unadvisable  Not advisable; inadvisable; inexpedient.
Unadvised  Not prudent; not discreet; ill advised.
Unadvised  Done without due consideration; wanton; rash; inconsiderate; as, an unadvised proceeding.
Unaffected  Not affected or moved; destitute of affection or emotion; uninfluenced.
Unaffected  Free from affectation; plain; simple; natural; real; sincere; genuine; as, unaffected sorrow.
Unafiled  Undefiled.
Unagreeable  Disagreeable.
Unagreeable  Not agreeing or consistent; unsuitable.
Unaidable  Incapable of being aided.
Unalienable  Inalienable; as, unalienable rights.
Unalist  An ecclesiastical who holds but one benefice; -- distinguished from pluralist.
Unallied  Not allied; having no ally; having no connection or relation; as, unallied species or genera.
Unalloyed  Not alloyed; not reduced by foreign admixture; unmixed; unqualified; pure; as, unalloyed metals; unalloyed happiness.
Unalmsed  Not having received alms.
Unambiguity  Absence of ambiguity; clearness; perspicuity.
Unambition  The absence of ambition.
Unamiability  The quality or state of being unamiable; moroseness.
Unamiable  Not amiable; morose; ill-natured; repulsive.
Unanchor  To loose from the anchor, as a ship.
Unaneled  Not aneled; not having received extreme unction.
Unanimate  Unanimous.
Unanimity  The quality or state of being unanimous.
Unanimous  Being of one mind; agreeing in opinion, design, or determination; consentient; not discordant or dissentient; harmonious; as, the assembly was unanimous; the members of the council were unanimous.
Unanimous  Formed with unanimity; indicating unanimity; having the agreement and consent of all; agreed upon without the opposition or contradiction of any; as, a unanimous opinion; a unanimous vote.
Unanswerability  The quality of being unanswerable; unanswerableness.
Unanswerable  Not answerable; irrefutable; conclusive; decisive; as, he have an unanswerable argument.
Unanswered  Not answered; not replied; as, an unanswered letter.
Unanswered  Not refuted; as, an unanswered argument.
Unanswered  Not responded to in kind; unrequited; as, unanswered affection.
Unappalled  Not appalled; not frightened; dauntless; undaunted.
Unapparel  To divest of clothing; to strip.
Unappealable  Not appealable; that can not be carried to a higher tribunal by appeal; as, an unappealable suit or action.
Unappealable  Not to be appealed from; -- said of a judge or a judgment that can not be overruled.
Unappliable  Inapplicable.
Unapplicable  Inapplicable.
Unappropriate  Inappropriate; unsuitable.
Unappropriate  Not appropriated.
Unappropriate  To take from private possession; to restore to the possession or right of all; as, to unappropriate a monopoly.
Unappropriated  Not specially appropriate; having not special application.
Unappropriated  Not granted to any person, corporation, or the like, to the exclusion of others; as, unappropriated lands.
Unappropriated  Not granted for, or applied to, any specific purpose; as, the unappropriated moneys in the treasury.
Unapproved  Not approved.
Unapproved  Not proved.
Unapt  Inapt; slow; dull.
Unapt  Unsuitable; unfit; inappropriate.
Unapt  Not accustomed and not likely; not disposed.
Unaquit  Unrequited.
Unargued  Not argued or debated.
Unargued  Not argued against; undisputed.
Unargued  Not censured.
Unarm  To disarm.
Unarm  To puff off, or lay down, one's arms or armor.
Unarmed  Not armed or armored; having no arms or weapons.
Unarmed  Having no hard and sharp projections, as spines, prickles, spurs, claws, etc.
Unarted  Ignorant of the arts.
Unarted  Not artificial; plain; simple.
Unartful  Lacking art or skill; artless.
Unartistic  Inartistic.
Unascried  Not descried.
Unaserved  Not served.
Unassuming  Not assuming; not bold or forward; not arrogant or presuming; humble; modest; retiring; as, an unassuming youth; unassuming manners.
Unassured  Not assured; not bold or confident.
Unassured  Not to be trusted.
Unassured  Not insured against loss; as, unassured goods.
Unatonable  Not capable of being brought into harmony; irreconcilable.
Unatonable  Incapable of being atoned for; inexpiable.
Unattached  Not attached; not adhering; having no engagement; free.
Unattached  Not assigned to any company or regiment.
Unattached  Not taken or arrested.
Unattentive  Inattentive; careless.
Unattire  To divest of attire; to undress.
Unau  The two-toed sloth (Cholopus didactylus), native of South America. It is about two feet long. Its color is a uniform grayish brown, sometimes with a reddish tint.
Unaudienced  Not given an audience; not received or heard.
Unauspicious  Inauspicious.
Unauthorize  To disown the authority of; to repudiate.
Unavoidable  Not avoidable; incapable of being shunned or prevented; inevitable; necessary; as, unavoidable troubles.
Unavoidable  Not voidable; incapable of being made null or void.
Unavoided  Not avoided or shunned.
Unavoided  Unavoidable; inevitable.
Unaware  Not aware; not noticing; giving no heed; thoughtless; inattentive.
Unaware  Unawares.
Unawares  Without design or preparation; suddenly; without premeditation, unexpectedly.
Unbacked  Never mounted by a rider; unbroken.
Unbacked  Not supported or encouraged; not countenanced; unaided.
Unbag  To pour, or take, or let go, out of a bag or bags.
Unbalanced  Not balanced; not in equipoise; having no counterpoise, or having insufficient counterpoise.
Unbalanced  Not adjusted; not settled; not brought to an equality of debt and credit; as, an unbalanced account; unbalanced books.
Unbalanced  Being, or being thrown, out of equilibrium; hence, disordered or deranged in sense; unsteady; unsound; as, an unbalanced mind.
Unballast  To free from ballast; to discharge ballast from.
Unballast  Not ballasted.
Unballasted  Freed from ballast; having discharged ballast.
Unballasted  Not furnished with ballast; not kept steady by ballast; unsteady; as, unballasted vessels; unballasted wits.
Unbaned  Wanting a band or string; unfastened.
Unbank  To remove a bank from; to open by, or as if by, the removal of a bank.
Unbar  To remove a bar or bars from; to unbolt; to open; as, to unbar a gate.
Unbarbed  Not shaven.
Unbarbed  Destitute of bards, or of reversed points, hairs, or plumes; as, an unbarded feather.
Unbark  To deprive of the bark; to decorticate; to strip; as, to unbark a tree.
Unbark  To cause to disembark; to land.
Unbarrel  To remove or release from a barrel or barrels.
Unbarricade  To unbolt; to unbar; to open.
Unbarricadoed  Not obstructed by barricades; open; as, unbarricadoed streets.
Unbashful  Not bashful or modest; bold; impudent; shameless.
Unbay  To free from the restraint of anything that surrounds or incloses; to let loose; to open.
Unbe  To cause not to be; to cause to be another.
Unbear  To remove or loose the bearing rein of (a horse).
Unbeat  To deliver from the form or nature of a beast.
Unbecome  To misbecome.
Unbecoming  Not becoming; unsuitable; unfit; indecorous; improper.
Unbed  To raise or rouse from bed.
Unbedinned  Not filled with din.
Unbefool  To deliver from the state of a fool; to awaken the mind of; to undeceive.
Unbeget  To deprive of existence.
Unbegilt  Not gilded; hence, not rewarded with gold.
Unbegot  Alt. of Unbegotten
Unbegotten  Not begot; not yet generated; also, having never been generated; self-existent; eternal.
Unbeguiled  of Unbeguile
Unbeguiling  of Unbeguile
Unbeguile  To set free from the influence of guile; to undeceive.
Unbegun  Not yet begun; also, existing without a beginning.
Unbehovely  Not behooving or becoming; unseemly.
Unbeing  Not existing.
Unbeknown  Not known; unknown.
Unbelief  The withholding of belief; doubt; incredulity; skepticism.
Unbelief  Disbelief; especially, disbelief of divine revelation, or in a divine providence or scheme of redemption.
Unbelieved  Not believed; disbelieved.
Unbeliever  One who does not believe; an incredulous person; a doubter; a skeptic.
Unbeliever  A disbeliever; especially, one who does not believe that the Bible is a divine revelation, and holds that Christ was neither a divine nor a supernatural person; an infidel; a freethinker.
Unbelieving  Not believing; incredulous; doubting; distrusting; skeptical.
Unbelieving  Believing the thing alleged no to be true; disbelieving; especially, believing that Bible is not a divine revelation, or that Christ was not a divine or a supernatural person.
Unbelt  To remove or loose the belt of; to ungird.
Unbent  of Unbend
Unbending  of Unbend
Unbend  To free from flexure; to make, or allow to become, straight; to loosen; as, to unbend a bow.
Unbend  A remit from a strain or from exertion; to set at ease for a time; to relax; as, to unbend the mind from study or care.
Unbend  To unfasten, as sails, from the spars or stays to which they are attached for use.
Unbend  To cast loose or untie, as a rope.
Unbend  To cease to be bent; to become straight or relaxed.
Unbend  To relax in exertion, attention, severity, or the like; hence, to indulge in mirth or amusement.
Unbending  Not bending; not suffering flexure; not yielding to pressure; stiff; -- applied to material things.
Unbending  Unyielding in will; not subject to persuasion or influence; inflexible; resolute; -- applied to persons.
Unbending  Unyielding in nature; unchangeable; fixed; -- applied to abstract ideas; as, unbending truths.
Unbending  Devoted to relaxation or amusement.
Unbenevolence  Absence or want of benevolence; ill will.
Unbenign  Not benign; malignant.
Unbenumb  To relieve of numbness; to restore sensation to.
Unbereaven  Unbereft.
Unbereft  Not bereft; not taken away.
Unbeseem  To be unbecoming or unsuitable to; to misbecome.
Unbeseeming  Unbecoming; not befitting.
Unbespeak  To unsay; hence, to annul or cancel.
Unbethink  To change the mind of (one's self).
Unbeware  Unawares.
Unbewitch  To free from a spell; to disenchant.
Unbias  To free from bias or prejudice.
Unbiased  Free from bias or prejudice; unprejudiced; impartial.
Unbid  Alt. of Unbidden
Unbidden  Not bidden; not commanded.
Unbidden  Uninvited; as, unbidden guests.
Unbidden  Being without a prayer.
Unbound  of Unbind
Unbinding  of Unbind
Unbind  To remove a band from; to set free from shackles or fastenings; to unite; to unfasten; to loose; as, unbind your fillets; to unbind a prisoner's arms; to unbind a load.
Unbishop  To deprive, as a city, of a bishop; to deprive, as a clergyman, of episcopal dignity or rights.
Unbitted  of Unbit
Unbitting  of Unbit
Unbit  To remove the turns of (a rope or cable) from the bits; as, to unbit a cable.
Unblemished  Not blemished; pure; spotless; as, an unblemished reputation or life.
Unbless  To deprive of blessings; to make wretched.
Unblessed  Alt. of Unblest
Unblest  Not blest; excluded from benediction; hence, accursed; wretched.
Unblestful  Unblessed.
Unblind  To free from blindness; to give or restore sight to; to open the eyes of.
Unblindfold  To free from that which blindfolds.
Unbloody  Not bloody.
Unblushing  Not blushing; shameless.
Unbody  To free from the body; to disembody.
Unbody  To leave the body; to be disembodied; -- said of the soul or spirit.
Unbolt  To remove a bolt from; to unfasten; to unbar; to open.
Unbolt  To explain or unfold a matter; to make a revelation.
Unbone  To deprive of bones, as meat; to bone.
Unbone  To twist about, as if boneless.
Unbonnet  To take a bonnet from; to take off one's bonnet; to uncover; as, to unbonnet one's head.
Unbooked  Not written in a book; unrecorded.
Unboot  To take off the boots from.
Unborn  Not born; no yet brought into life; being still to appear; future.
Unborrowed  Not borrowed; being one's own; native; original.
Unbosomed  of Unbosom
Unbosoming  of Unbosom
Unbosom  To disclose freely; to reveal in confidence, as secrets; to confess; -- often used reflexively; as, to unbosom one's self.
Unbosomer  One who unbosoms, or discloses.
Unbottomed  Deprived of a bottom.
Unbottomed  Having no bottom; bottomless.
Unbound  imp. & p. p. of Unbind.
Unboundably  Infinitely.
Unbounded  Having no bound or limit; as, unbounded space; an, unbounded ambition.
Unbow  To unbend.
Unbowed  Not bent or arched; not bowed down.
Unboweled  of Unbowel
Unbowelled  of Unbowel
Unboweling  of Unbowel
Unbowelling  of Unbowel
Unbowel  To deprive of the entrails; to disembowel.
Unbox  To remove from a box or boxes.
Unboy  To divest of the traits of a boy.
Unbrace  To free from tension; to relax; to loose; as, to unbrace a drum; to unbrace the nerves.
Unbraid  To separate the strands of; to undo, as a braid; to unravel; to disentangle.
Unbreast  To disclose, or lay open; to unbosom.
Unbreathed  Not breathed.
Unbreathed  Not exercised; unpracticed.
Unbred  Not begotten; unborn.
Unbred  Not taught or trained; -- with to.
Unbred  Not well-bred; ill-bred.
Unbreeched  of Unbreech
Unbreching  of Unbreech
Unbreech  To remove the breeches of; to divest or strip of breeches.
Unbreech  To free the breech of, as a cannon, from its fastenings or coverings.
Unbrewed  Not made by brewing; unmixed; pure; genuine.
Unbridle  To free from the bridle; to set loose.
Unbridled  Loosed from the bridle, or as from the bridle; hence, unrestrained; licentious; violent; as, unbridled passions.
Unbroken  Not broken; continuous; unsubdued; as, an unbroken colt.
Unbuckle  To loose the buckles of; to unfasten; as, to unbuckle a shoe.
Unbuild  To demolish; to raze.
Unbundle  To release, as from a bundle; to disclose.
Unbung  To remove the bung from; as, to unbung a cask.
Unburden  To relieve from a burden.
Unburden  To throw off, as a burden; to unload.
Unburiable  Not ready or not proper to be buried.
Unburrow  To force from a burrow; to unearth.
Unburthen  To unburden; to unload.
Unbury  To disinter; to exhume; fig., to disclose.
Unbusied  Not required to work; unemployed; not busy.
Unbutton  To loose the buttons of; to unfasten.
Unbuxom  Disobedient.
Uncage  To loose, or release, from, or as from, a cage.
Uncalled-for  Not called for; not required or needed; improper; gratuitous; wanton.
Uncalm  To disturb; to disquiet.
Uncamp  To break up the camp of; to dislodge from camp.
Uncanny  Not canny; unsafe; strange; weird; ghostly.
Uncanonize  To deprive of canonical authority.
Uncanonize  To reduce from the rank of a canonized saint.
Uncap  To remove a cap or cover from.
Uncapable  Incapable.
Uncape  To remove a cap or cape from.
Uncapper  An instrument for removing an explode cap from a cartridge shell.
Uncardinal  To degrade from the cardinalship.
Uncared  Not cared for; not heeded; -- with for.
Uncarnate  Not fleshy; specifically, not made flesh; not incarnate.
Uncarnate  To divest of flesh.
Uncart  To take from, or set free from, a cart; to unload.
Uncase  To take out of a case or covering; to remove a case or covering from; to uncover.
Uncase  To strip; to flay.
Uncase  To display, or spread to view, as a flag, or the colors of a military body.
Uncastle  To take a castle from; to turn out of a castle.
Uncaused  Having no antecedent cause; uncreated; self-existent; eternal.
Uncautelous  Incautious.
Uncautious  Incautious.
Uncautiously  Incautiously.
Unce  A claw.
Unce  An ounce; a small portion.
Unceasable  Not capable of being ended; unceasing.
Uncenter  Alt. of Uncentre
Uncentre  To throw from its center.
Uncentury  To remove from its actual century.
Uncertain  Not certain; not having certain knowledge; not assured in mind; distrustful.
Uncertain  Irresolute; inconsonant; variable; untrustworthy; as, an uncertain person; an uncertain breeze.
Uncertain  Questionable; equivocal; indefinite; problematical.
Uncertain  Not sure; liable to fall or err; fallible.
Uncertain  To make uncertain.
Uncertainly  In an uncertain manner.
Uncertainties  of Uncertainty
Uncertainty  The quality or state of being uncertain.
Uncertainty  That which is uncertain; something unknown.
Uncessant  Incessant.
Unchain  To free from chains or slavery; to let loose.
Unchancy  Happening at a bad time; unseasonable; inconvenient.
Unchancy  Ill-fated; unlucky.
Unchancy  Unsafe to meddle with; dangerous.
Unchaplain  To remove from a chaplaincy.
Uncharge  To free from a charge or load; to unload.
Uncharge  To free from an accusation; to make no charge against; to acquit.
Unchariot  To throw out of a chariot.
Uncharitable  Not charitable; contrary to charity; severe in judging; harsh; censorious; as, uncharitable opinions or zeal.
Uncharity  Uncharitableness.
Uncharm  To release from a charm, fascination, or secret power; to disenchant.
Uncharneled  of Uncharnel
Uncharneling  of Uncharnel
Uncharnel  To remove from a charnel house; to raise from the grave; to exhume.
Unchaste  Not chaste; not continent; lewd.
Unchastity  The quality or state of being unchaste; lewdness; incontinence.
Uncheckable  Not capable of being checked or stopped.
Unchild  To bereave of children; to make childless.
Unchild  To make unlike a child; to divest of the characteristics of a child.
Unchristen  To render unchristian.
Unchristened  Not christened; as, an unchristened child.
Unchristian  Not Christian; not converted to the Christian faith; infidel.
Unchristian  Contrary to Christianity; not like or becoming a Christian; as, unchristian conduct.
Unchristian  To make unchristian.
Unchristianize  To turn from the Christian faith; to cause to abandon the belief and profession of Christianity.
Unchristianly  Unchristian.
Unchristianly  In an unchristian manner.
Unchristianness  The quality or state of being unchristian.
Unchurch  To expel, or cause to separate, from a church; to excommunicate.
Unchurch  To deprive of the character, privileges, and authority of a church.
Unciae  of Uncia
Uncia  A twelfth part, as of the Roman as; an ounce.
Uncia  A numerical coefficient in any particular case of the binomial theorem.
Uncial  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain style of letters used in ancient manuscripts, esp. in Greek and Latin manuscripts. The letters are somewhat rounded, and the upstrokes and downstrokes usually have a slight inclination. These letters were used as early as the 1st century b. c., and were seldom used after the 10th century a. d., being superseded by the cursive style.
Uncial  An uncial letter.
Unciatim  Ounce by ounce.
Unciform  Having the shape of a hook; being of a curved or hooked from; hooklike.
Unciform  The unciform bone. See Illust. of Perissodactyla.
Uncinata  A division of marine chaetopod annelids which are furnished with uncini, as the serpulas and sabellas.
Uncinate  Hooked; bent at the tip in the form of a hook; as, an uncinate process.
Uncinatum  The unciform bone.
Uncini  of Uncinus
Uncinus  One of the peculiar minute chitinous hooks found in large numbers in the tori of tubicolous annelids belonging to the Uncinata.
Uncipher  To decipher; as, to uncipher a letter.
Uncircumcised  Not circumcised; hence, not of the Israelites.
Uncircumcision  The absence or want of circumcision.
Uncircumcision  People not circumcised; the Gentiles.
Uncircumstandtial  Not circumstantial; not entering into minute particulars.
Uncircumstandtial  Not important; not pertinent; trivial.
Uncity  To deprive of the rank or rights of a city.
Uncivil  Not civilized; savage; barbarous; uncivilized.
Uncivil  Not civil; not complaisant; discourteous; impolite; rude; unpolished; as, uncivil behavior.
Uncivility  Incivility.
Uncivilization  The state of being uncivilized; savagery or barbarism.
Uncivilized  Not civilized; not reclaimed from savage life; rude; barbarous; savage; as, the uncivilized inhabitants of Central Africa.
Uncivilized  Not civil; coarse; clownish.
Uncivilty  In an uncivil manner.
Unclasp  To loose the clasp of; to open, as something that is fastened, or as with, a clasp; as, to unclasp a book; to unclasp one's heart.
Uncle  The brother of one's father or mother; also applied to an aunt's husband; -- the correlative of aunt in sex, and of nephew and niece in relationship.
Uncle  A pawnbroker.
Unclean  Not clean; foul; dirty; filthy.
Unclean  Ceremonially impure; needing ritual cleansing.
Unclean  Morally impure.
Uncleansable  Incapable of being cleansed or cleaned.
Unclench  Same as Unclinch.
Uncleship  The office or position of an uncle.
Unclew  To unwind, unfold, or untie; hence, to undo; to ruin.
Unclinch  To cause to be no longer clinched; to open; as, to unclinch the fist.
Uncling  To cease from clinging or adhering.
Uncloak  To remove a cloak or cover from; to deprive of a cloak or cover; to unmask; to reveal.
Uncloak  To remove, or take off, one's cloak.
Unclog  To disencumber of a clog, or of difficulties and obstructions; to free from encumbrances; to set at liberty.
Uncloister  To release from a cloister, or from confinement or seclusion; to set free; to liberate.
Unclose  To open; to separate the parts of; as, to unclose a letter; to unclose one's eyes.
Unclose  To disclose; to lay open; to reveal.
Unclosed  Not separated by inclosures; open.
Unclosed  Not finished; not concluded.
Unclosed  Not closed; not sealed; open.
Unclothe  To strip of clothes or covering; to make naked.
Unclothed  Divested or stripped of clothing.
Unclothed  Not yet clothed; wanting clothes; naked.
Uncloud  To free from clouds; to unvail; to clear from obscurity, gloom, sorrow, or the like.
Unclue  To unwind; to untangle.
Unclutch  To open, as something closely shut.
Unclutch  To disengage, as a clutch.
Unco  Unknown; strange, or foreign; unusual, or surprising; distant in manner; reserved.
Unco  In a high degree; to a great extent; greatly; very.
Unco  A strange thing or person.
Uncoach  To detach or loose from a coach.
Uncock  To let down the cock of, as a firearm.
Uncock  To deprive of its cocked shape, as a hat, etc.
Uncock  To open or spread from a cock or heap, as hay.
Uncoffle  To release from a coffle.
Uncoif  To deprive of the coif or cap.
Uncoil  To unwind or open, as a coil of rope.
Uncoined  Not coined, or minted; as, uncoined silver.
Uncoined  Not fabricated; not artificial or counterfeit; natural.
Uncolt  To unhorse.
Uncombine  To separate, as substances in combination; to release from combination or union.
Uncomeatable  Not to be come at, or reached; inaccessible.
Uncomely  Not comely. -- adv. In an uncomely manner.
Uncomfortable  Feeling discomfort; uneasy; as, to be uncomfortable on account of one's position.
Uncomfortable  Causing discomfort; disagreeable; unpleasant; as, an uncomfortable seat or situation.
Uncommon  Not common; unusual; infrequent; rare; hence, remarkable; strange; as, an uncommon season; an uncommon degree of cold or heat; uncommon courage.
Uncomplete  Incomplete.
Uncomprehend  To fail to comprehend.
Uncomprehensive  Unable to comprehend.
Uncomprehensive  Incomprehensible.
Uncompromising  Not admitting of compromise; making no truce or concessions; obstinate; unyielding; inflexible.
Unconceivable  Inconceivable.
Unconcern  Want of concern; absence of anxiety; freedom from solicitude; indifference.
Unconcerned  Not concerned; not anxious or solicitous; easy in mind; carelessly secure; indifferent; as, to be unconcerned at what has happened; to be unconcerned about the future.
Unconcerning  Not interesting of affecting; insignificant; not belonging to one.
Unconcernment  The state of being unconcerned, or of having no share or concern; unconcernedness.
Unconcludent  Alt. of Unconcluding
Unconcluding  Inconclusive.
Unconclusive  Inconclusive.
Unconditional  Not conditional limited, or conditioned; made without condition; absolute; unreserved; as, an unconditional surrender.
Unconditioned  Not conditioned or subject to conditions; unconditional.
Unconditioned  Not subject to condition or limitations; infinite; absolute; hence, inconceivable; incogitable.
Unconfidence  Absence of confidence; uncertainty; doubt.
Uncoform  Unlike.
Uncoformability  The quality or state of being unconformable; unconformableness.
Uncoformability  Want of parallelism between one series of strata and another, especially when due to a disturbance of the position of the earlier strata before the latter were deposited.
Unconformable  Not conformable; not agreeable; not conforming.
Unconformable  Not conformable; not lying in a parallel position; as, unconformable strata.
Unconformist  A nonconformist.
Unconformity  Want of conformity; incongruity; inconsistency.
Unconformity  Want of parallelism between strata in contact.
Unconfound  To free from a state of confusion, or of being confounded.
Unconfounded  Not confounded.
Uncongeal  To thaw; to become liquid again.
Unconning  Not knowing; ignorant.
Unconning  Ignorance.
Unconquerable  Not conquerable; indomitable.
Unconscionable  Not conscionable; not conforming to reason; unreasonable; exceeding the limits of any reasonable claim or expectation; inordinate; as, an unconscionable person or demand; unconscionable size.
Unconscionable  Not guided by, or conformed to, conscience.
Unconscious  Not conscious; having no consciousness or power of mental perception; without cerebral appreciation; hence, not knowing or regarding; ignorant; as, an unconscious man.
Unconscious  Not known or apprehended by consciousness; as, an unconscious cerebration.
Unconscious  Having no knowledge by experience; -- followed by of; as, a mule unconscious of the yoke.
Unconsecrate  To render not sacred; to deprive of sanctity; to desecrate.
Unconsequential  Inconsequential.
Unconsiderate  Inconsiderate; heedless; careless.
Unconsidered  Not considered or attended to; not regarded; inconsiderable; trifling.
Unconsonant  Incongruous; inconsistent.
Unconspicuous  Inconspicuous.
Unconstancy  Inconstancy.
Unconstant  Not constant; inconstant; fickle; changeable.
Unconstitutional  Not constitutional; not according to, or consistent with, the terms of a constitution of government; contrary to the constitution; as, an unconstitutional law, or act of an officer.
Unconstraint  Freedom from constraint; ease.
Unconsummate  Not consummated; not accomplished.
Uncontestable  Incontestable.
Uncontinent  Not continent; incontinent.
Uncontrollable  Incapable of being controlled; ungovernable; irresistible; as, an uncontrollable temper; uncontrollable events.
Uncontrollable  Indisputable; irrefragable; as, an uncontrollable maxim; an uncontrollable title.
Uncontroversory  Not involving controversy.
Uncontrovertible  Incontrovertible.
Uncontrovertibly  Incontrovertibly.
Unconvenient  Inconvenient.
Unconversion  The state of being unconverted; impenitence.
Unconverted  Not converted or exchanged.
Unconverted  Not changed in opinion, or from one faith to another.
Unconverted  Not persuaded of the truth of the Christian religion; heathenish.
Unconverted  Unregenerate; sinful; impenitent.
Uncord  To release from cords; to loosen the cord or cords of; to unfasten or unbind; as, to uncord a package.
Uncork  To draw the cork from; as, to uncork a bottle.
Uncorrect  Incorrect.
Uncorrigible  Incorrigible; not capable of correction.
Uncorrupt  Incorrupt.
Uncorruptible  Incorruptible.
Uncorruption  Incorruption.
Uncouple  To loose, as dogs, from their couples; also, to set loose; to disconnect; to disjoin; as, to uncouple railroad cars.
Uncouple  To roam at liberty.
Uncourtliness  Absence of courtliness; rudeness; rusticity.
Uncous  Hooklike; hooked.
Uncouth  Unknown.
Uncouth  Uncommon; rare; exquisite; elegant.
Uncouth  Unfamiliar; strange; hence, mysterious; dreadful; also, odd; awkward; boorish; as, uncouth manners.
Uncovenable  Not covenable; inconvenient.
Uncovenanted  Not covenanted; not granted or entered into under a covenant, agreement, or contract.
Uncovenanted  Not having joined in a league, or assented to a covenant or agreement, as to the Solemn League and Covenant of the Scottish people in the times of the Stuarts.
Uncovenanted  Not having entered into relationship with God through the appointed means of grace; also, not promised or assured by the divine promises or conditions; as, uncovenanted mercies.
Uncovered  of Uncover
Uncovering  of Uncover
Uncover  To take the cover from; to divest of covering; as, to uncover a box, bed, house, or the like; to uncover one's body.
Uncover  To show openly; to disclose; to reveal.
Uncover  To divest of the hat or cap; to bare the head of; as, to uncover one's head; to uncover one's self.
Uncover  To take off the hat or cap; to bare the head in token of respect.
Uncover  To remove the covers from dishes, or the like.
Uncowl  To divest or deprive of a cowl.
Uncreate  To deprive of existence; to annihilate.
Uncreate  Uncreated; self-existent.
Uncreated  Deprived of existence; annihilated.
Uncreated  Not yet created; as, misery uncreated.
Uncreated  Not existing by creation; self-existent; eternal; as, God is an uncreated being.
Uncreatedness  The quality or state of being uncreated.
Uncredible  Incredible.
Uncredit  To cause to be disbelieved; to discredit.
Uncreditable  Discreditable.
Uncrown  To deprive of a crown; to take the crown from; hence, to discrown; to dethrone.
Uncrudded  Not cruddled, or curdled.
Unction  The act of anointing, smearing, or rubbing with an unguent, oil, or ointment, especially for medical purposes, or as a symbol of consecration; as, mercurial unction.
Unction  That which is used for anointing; an unguent; an ointment; hence, anything soothing or lenitive.
Unction  Divine or sanctifying grace.
Unction  That quality in language, address, or the like, which excites emotion; especially, strong devotion; religious fervor and tenderness; sometimes, a simulated, factitious, or unnatural fervor.
Unctious  Unctuous.
Unctuosity  Quality or state of being unctuous.
Unctuous  Of the nature or quality of an unguent or ointment; fatty; oily; greasy.
Unctuous  Having a smooth, greasy feel, as certain minerals.
Unctuous  Bland; suave; also, tender; fervid; as, an unctuous speech; sometimes, insincerely suave or fervid.
Unculpable  Inculpable; not blameworthy.
Uncult  Not cultivated; rude; illiterate.
Unculture  Want of culture.
Uncunning  Ignorant.
Uncunningly  Ignorantly.
Uncunningness  Ignorance.
Uncurable  Incurable.
Uncurably  In an uncurable manner.
Uncurbable  Not capable of being curbed.
Uncurl  To loose from curls, or ringlets; to straighten out, as anything curled or curly.
Uncurl  To become uncurled, or straight.
Uncurrent  Not current. Specifically: Not passing in common payment; not receivable at par or full value; as, uncurrent notes.
Uncurse  To free from a curse or an execration.
Uncurtain  To remove a curtain from; to reveal.
Unci  of Uncus
Uncus  A hook or claw.
Uncustomable  Not customable, or subject to custom duties.
Uncustomed  Uncustomable; also, not having paid duty or customs.
Uncut  Not cut; not separated or divided by cutting or otherwise; -- said especially of books, periodicals, and the like, when the leaves have not been separated by trimming in binding.
Uncut  Not ground, or otherwise cut, into a certain shape; as, an uncut diamond.
Uncuth  Unknown; strange.
Uncuth  A stranger.
Uncypher  See Uncipher.
Undam  To free from a dam, mound, or other obstruction.
Undampned  Uncondemned.
Undated  Rising and falling in waves toward the margin, as a leaf; waved.
Undated  Not dated; having no date; of unknown age; as, an undated letter.
Undauntable  Incapable of being daunted; intrepid; fearless; indomitable.
Undaunted  Not daunted; not subdued or depressed by fear.
Unde  Waving or wavy; -- applied to ordinaries, or division lines.
Undeadly  Not subject to death; immortal.
Undeaf  To free from deafness; to cause to hear.
Undecagon  A figure having eleven angles and eleven sides.
Undecane  A liquid hydrocarbon, C11H24, of the methane series, found in petroleum; -- so called from its containing eleven carbon atoms in the molecule.
Undeceive  To cause to be no longer deceived; to free from deception, fraud, fallacy, or mistake.
Undecency  Indecency.
Undecennary  Occurring once in every period of eleven years; undecennial.
Undecennial  Occurring or observed every eleventh year; belonging to, or continuing, a period of eleven years; undecennary; as, an undecennial festival.
Undecent  Indecent.
Undecide  To reverse or recant, as a previous decision.
Undecisive  Indecisive.
Undeck  To divest of ornaments.
Undecked  Not decked; unadorned.
Undecked  Not having a deck; as, an undecked vessel.
Undecolic  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C11H18O2, of the propiolic acid series, obtained indirectly from undecylenic acid as a white crystalline substance.
Undecreed  Not decreed.
Undecreed  Reversed or nullified by decree, as something previously decreed.
Undecyl  The radical regarded as characteristic of undecylic acid.
Undecylenic  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid C11H20O2, homologous with acrylic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of castor oil.
Undecylic  Related to, derived from, or containing, undecyl; specifically, designating that member of the fatty acids which corresponds to undecane, and is obtained as a white crystalline substance, C11H22O2.
Undeeded  Not deeded or transferred by deed; as, undeeded land.
Undeeded  Not made famous by any great action.
Undefatigable  Indefatigable.
Undefeasible  Indefeasible.
Undefine  To make indefinite; to obliterate or confuse the definition or limitations of.
Undeify  To degrade from the state of deity; to deprive of the character or qualities of a god; to deprive of the reverence due to a god.
Undeniable  Not deniable; incapable of denial; palpably true; indisputable; obvious; as, undeniable evidence.
Undeniable  Unobjectionable; unquestionably excellent; as, a person of undeniable connections.
Undeniably  In an undeniable manner.
Undepartable  Incapable of being parted; inseparable.
Under  Below or lower, in place or position, with the idea of being covered; lower than; beneath; -- opposed to over; as, he stood under a tree; the carriage is under cover; a cellar extends under the whole house.
Under  Denoting relation to some thing or person that is superior, weighs upon, oppresses, bows down, governs, directs, influences powerfully, or the like, in a relation of subjection, subordination, obligation, liability, or the like; as, to travel under a heavy load; to live under extreme oppression; to have fortitude under the evils of life; to have patience under pain, or under misfortunes; to behave like a Christian under reproaches and injuries; under the pains and penalties of the law; the condition under which one enters upon an office; under the necessity of obeying the laws; under vows of chastity.
Under  Denoting relation to something that exceeds in rank or degree, in number, size, weight, age, or the like; in a relation of the less to the greater, of inferiority, or of falling short.
Under  Denoting relation to something that comprehends or includes, that represents or designates, that furnishes a cover, pretext, pretense, or the like; as, he betrayed him under the guise of friendship; Morpheus is represented under the figure of a boy asleep.
Under  Less specifically, denoting the relation of being subject, of undergoing regard, treatment, or the like; as, a bill under discussion.
Under  In a lower, subject, or subordinate condition; in subjection; -- used chiefly in a few idiomatic phrases; as, to bring under, to reduce to subjection; to subdue; to keep under, to keep in subjection; to control; to go under, to be unsuccessful; to fail.
Under  Lower in position, intensity, rank, or degree; subject; subordinate; -- generally in composition with a noun, and written with or without the hyphen; as, an undercurrent; undertone; underdose; under-garment; underofficer; undersheriff.
Underact  To perform inefficiently, as a play; to act feebly.
Underaction  Subordinate action; a minor action incidental or subsidiary to the main story; an episode.
Underactor  A subordinate actor.
Under-age  Not having arrived at adult age, or at years of discretion; hence, raw; green; immature; boyish; childish.
Underagent  A subordinate agent.
Underaid  To aid clandestinely.
Under-arm  Done (as bowling) with the arm not raised above the elbow, that is, not swung far out from the body; underhand. Cf. Over-arm and Round-Arm.
Underback  A vessel which receives the wort as it flows from the mashing tub.
Underbear  To support; to endure.
Underbear  To line; to guard; to face; as, cloth of gold underborne with blue tinsel.
Underbearer  One who supports or sustains; especially, at a funeral, one of those who bear the copse, as distinguished from a bearer, or pallbearer, who helps to hold up the pall.
Underbid  To bid less than, as when a contract or service is offered to the lowest bidder; to offer to contract, sell, or do for a less price than.
Underbind  To bind beneath.
Underboard  Under the board, or table; hence, secretly; unfairly; underhand. See the Note under Aboveboard.
Underbrace  To brace, fasten, or bind underneath or below.
Underbranch  A lower branch.
Underbranch  A twig or branchlet.
Underbred  Not thoroughly bred; ill-bred; as, an underbred fellow.
Underbrush  Shrubs, small trees, and the like, in a wood or forest, growing beneath large trees; undergrowth.
Underbuilder  A subordinate or assistant builder.
Underbuilding  Same as Substruction.
Underbuy  To buy at less than the real value or worth; to buy cheaper than.
Undercast  To cast under or beneath.
Underchamberlain  A deputy chamberlain of the exchequer.
Underchanter  Same as Subchanter.
Underchaps  The lower chaps or jaw.
Undercharge  To charge below or under; to charge less than is usual or suitable fro; as, to undercharge goods or services.
Undercharge  To put too small a charge into; as, to undercharge a gun.
Undercharge  A charge that is less than is usual or suitable.
Underclay  A stratum of clay lying beneath a coal bed, often containing the roots of coal plants, especially the Stigmaria.
Undercliff  A subordinate cliff on a shore, consisting of material that has fallen from the higher cliff above.
Underclothes  Clothes worn under others, especially those worn next the skin for warmth.
Underclothing  Same as Underclothes.
Undercoat  A coat worn under another; a light coat, as distinguished from an overcoat, or a greatcoat.
Undercoat  A growth of short hair or fur partially concealed by a longer growth; as, a dog's undercoat.
Underconduct  A lower conduit; a subterranean conduit.
Underconsumption  Consumption of less than is produced; consumption of less than the usual amount.
Undercraft  A sly trick or device; as, an undercraft of authors.
Undercreep  To creep secretly or privily.
Undercrest  To support as a crest; to bear.
Undercroft  A subterranean room of any kind; esp., one under a church (see Crypt), or one used as a chapel or for any sacred purpose.
Undercry  To cry aloud.
Undercurrent  A current below the surface of water, sometimes flowing in a contrary direction to that on the surface.
Undercurrent  Hence, figuratively, a tendency of feeling, opinion, or the like, in a direction contrary to what is publicly shown; an unseen influence or tendency; as, a strong undercurrent of sentiment in favor of a prisoner.
Undercurrent  Running beneath the surface; hidden.
Undercut  The lower or under side of a sirloin of beef; the fillet.
Undercut  To cut away, as the side of an object, so as to leave an overhanging portion.
Underdealing  Crafty, unfair, or underhand dealing; unfair practice; trickery.
Underdelve  To delve under.
Underdig  To dig under or beneath; to undermine.
Underditch  To dig an underground ditches in, so as to drain the surface; to underdrain; as, to underditch a field or a farm.
Underdo  To do less than is requisite or proper; -- opposed to overdo.
Underdo  To do less thoroughly than is requisite; specifically, to cook insufficiently; as, to underdo the meat; -- opposed to overdo.
Underdoer  One who underdoes; a shirk.
Underdolven  p. p. of Underdelve.
Underdose  A dose which is less than required; a small or insufficient dose.
Underdose  To give an underdose or underdoses to; to practice giving insufficient doses.
Underdrain  An underground drain or trench with openings through which the water may percolate from the soil or ground above.
Underdrain  To drain by forming an underdrain or underdrains in; as, to underdrain land.
Underdressed  Not dresses enough.
Underestimate  To set to/ low a value on; to estimate below the truth.
Underestimate  The act of underestimating; too low an estimate.
Underfaction  A subordinate party or faction.
Underfaculty  An inferior or subordinate faculty.
Underfarmer  An assistant farmer.
Underfeed  To feed with too little food; to supply with an insufficient quantity of food.
Underfellow  An underling // mean, low fellow.
Underfilling  The filling below or beneath; the under part of a building.
Underfollow  To follow closely or immediately after.
Underfong  To undertake; to take in hand; to receive.
Underfong  To insnare; to circumvent.
Underfong  To sustain; to support; to guard.
Underfoot  Under the feet; underneath; below. See Under foot, under Foot, n.
Underfoot  Low; base; abject; trodden down.
Underfringe  A lower fringe; a fringe underneath something.
Underfurnish  To supply with less than enough; to furnish insufficiently.
Underfurrow  To cover as under a furrow; to plow in; as, to underfurrow seed or manure.
Under-garment  A garment worn below another.
Underget  To get under or beneath; also, to understand.
Undergird  To blind below; to gird round the bottom.
Underglaze  Applied under the glaze, that is, before the glaze, that is, before the glaze is put on; fitted to be so applied; -- said of colors in porcelain painting.
Underwent  of Undergo
Undergone  of Undergo
Undergoing  of Undergo
Undergo  To go or move below or under.
Undergo  To be subjected to; to bear up against; to pass through; to endure; to suffer; to sustain; as, to undergo toil and fatigue; to undergo pain, grief, or anxiety; to undergothe operation of amputation; food in the stomach undergoes the process of digestion.
Undergo  To be the bearer of; to possess.
Undergo  To undertake; to engage in; to hazard.
Undergo  To be subject or amenable to; to underlie.
Undergod  A lower or inferio/ god; a subordinate deity; a demigod.
Undergore  To gore underneath.
Undergown  A gown worn under another, or under some other article of dress.
Undergraduate  A member of a university or a college who has not taken his first degree; a student in any school who has not completed his course.
Undergraduate  Of or pertaining to an undergraduate, or the body of undergraduates.
Undergraduateship  The position or condition of an undergraduate.
Undergroan  To groan beneath.
Underground  The place or space beneath the surface of the ground; subterranean space.
Underground  Being below the surface of the ground; as, an underground story or apartment.
Underground  Done or occurring out of sight; secret.
Underground  Beneath the surface of the earth.
Undergrove  A grove of shrubs or low trees under taller ones.
Undergrow  To grow to an inferior, or less than the usual, size or height.
Undergrow  Undergrown.
Undergrown  Of small stature; not grown to a full height or size.
Undergrowth  That which grows under trees; specifically, shrubs or small trees growing among large trees.
Undergrub  To undermine.
Underhand  Secret; clandestine; hence, mean; unfair; fraudulent.
Underhand  Done, as pitching, with the hand lower than the shoulder, or, as bowling, with the hand lower than elbow.
Underhand  By secret means; in a clandestine manner; hence, by fraud; unfairly.
Underhand  In an underhand manner; -- said of pitching or bowling.
Underhanded  Underhand; clandestine.
Underhanded  Insufficiently provided with hands or workers; short-handed; sparsely populated.
Underhandedly  In an underhand manner.
Underhang  To hang under or down; to suspend.
Underhangman  An assistant or deputy hangman.
Underhead  A blockhead, or stupid person; a dunderhead.
Underheave  To heave or lift from below.
Underhew  To hew less than is usual or proper; specifically, to hew, as a piece of timber which should be square, in such a manner that it appears to contain a greater number of cubic feet than it really does contain.
Underhonest  Not entirely honest.
Underhung  Resting on a track at the bottom, instead of being suspended; -- said of a sliding door.
Underhung  Having the lower jaw projecting.
Underjaw  The lower jaw.
Underjoin  To join below or beneath; to subjoin.
Underkeep  To keep under, or in subjection; to suppress.
Underkeeper  A subordinate keeper or guardian.
Underkind  An inferior kind.
Underkingdom  A subordinate or dependent kingdom.
Underlaborer  An assistant or subordinate laborer.
Underlaid  Laid or placed underneath; also, having something laid or lying underneath.
Underlay  To lay beneath; to put under.
Underlay  To raise or support by something laid under; as, to underlay a cut, plate, or the like, for printing. See Underlay, n., 2.
Underlay  To put a tap on (a shoe).
Underlay  To incline from the vertical; to hade; -- said of a vein, fault, or lode.
Underlay  The inclination of a vein, fault, or lode from the vertical; a hade; -- called also underlie.
Underlay  A thickness of paper, pasteboard, or the like, placed under a cut, or stereotype plate, or under type, in the from, to bring it, or any part of it, to the proper height; also, something placed back of a part of the tympan, so as to secure the right impression.
Underlayer  One who, or that which, underlays or is underlaid; a lower layer.
Underlayer  A perpendicular shaft sunk to cut the lode at any required depth.
Underleaf  A prolific sort of apple, good for cider.
Underlease  A lease granted by a tenant or lessee; especially, a lease granted by one who is himself a lessee for years, for any fewer or less number of years than he himself holds; a sublease.
Underlet  To let below the value.
Underlet  To let or lease at second hand; to sublet.
Underletter  A tenant or lessee who grants a lease to another.
Underlie  To lie under; to rest beneath; to be situated under; as, a stratum of clay underlies the surface gravel.
Underlie  To be at the basis of; to form the foundation of; to support; as, a doctrine underlying a theory.
Underlie  To be subject or amenable to.
Underlie  To lie below or under.
Underlie  See Underlay, n., 1.
Underline  To mark a line below, as words; to underscore.
Underline  To influence secretly.
Underling  An inferior person or agent; a subordinate; hence, a mean, sorry fellow.
Underlip  The lower lip.
Underlock  A lock of wool hanging under the belly of a sheep.
Underlocker  A person who inspects a mine daily; -- called also underviewer.
Underlying  Lying under or beneath; hence, fundamental; as, the underlying strata of a locality; underlying principles.
Undermanned  Insufficiently furnished with men; short-handed.
Undermasted  Having masts smaller than the usual dimension; -- said of vessels.
Undermaster  A master subordinate to the principal master; an assistant master.
Undermatch  One who is not a match for another.
Undermeal  The inferior, or after, part of the day; the afternoon.
Undermeal  Hence, something occurring or done in the afternoon; esp., an afternoon meal; supper; also, an afternoon nap; a siesta.
Undermine  To excavate the earth beneath, or the part of, especially for the purpose of causing to fall or be overthrown; to form a mine under; to sap; as, to undermine a wall.
Undermine  Fig.: To remove the foundation or support of by clandestine means; to ruin in an underhand way; as, to undermine reputation; to undermine the constitution of the state.
Underminer  One who undermines.
Underminister  To serve, or minister to, in a subordinate relation.
Underministry  A subordinate or inferior ministry.
Undermirth  Suppressed or concealed mirth.
Undermoneyed  Bribed.
Undermost  Lowest, as in place, rank, or condition.
Undern  The time between; the time between sunrise and noon; specifically, the third hour of the day, or nine o'clock in the morning, according to ancient reckoning; hence, mealtime, because formerly the principal meal was eaten at that hour; also, later, the afternoon; the time between dinner and supper.
Underneath  Beneath; below; in a lower place; under; as, a channel underneath the soil.
Underneath  Under; beneath; below.
Underniceness  A want of niceness; indelicacy; impropriety.
Undernom  of Undernime
Undernime  To receive; to perceive.
Undernime  To reprove; to reprehend.
Underofficer  A subordinate officer.
Underpart  A subordinate part.
Vaagmer  The dealfish.
Vacancies  of Vacancy
Vacancy  The quality or state of being vacant; emptiness; hence, freedom from employment; intermission; leisure; idleness; listlessness.
Vacancy  That which is vacant.
Vacancy  Empty space; vacuity; vacuum.
Vacancy  An open or unoccupied space between bodies or things; an interruption of continuity; chasm; gap; as, a vacancy between buildings; a vacancy between sentences or thoughts.
Vacancy  Unemployed time; interval of leisure; time of intermission; vacation.
Vacancy  A place or post unfilled; an unoccupied office; as, a vacancy in the senate, in a school, etc.
Vacant  Deprived of contents; not filled; empty; as, a vacant room.
Vacant  Unengaged with business or care; unemployed; unoccupied; disengaged; free; as, vacant hours.
Vacant  Not filled or occupied by an incumbent, possessor, or officer; as, a vacant throne; a vacant parish.
Vacant  Empty of thought; thoughtless; not occupied with study or reflection; as, a vacant mind.
Vacant  Abandoned; having no heir, possessor, claimant, or occupier; as, a vacant estate.
Vacantly  In a vacant manner; inanely.
Vacated  of Vacate
Vacating  of Vacate
Vacate  To make vacant; to leave empty; to cease from filling or occupying; as, it was resolved by Parliament that James had vacated the throne of England; the tenant vacated the house.
Vacate  To annul; to make void; to deprive of force; to make of no authority or validity; as, to vacate a commission or a charter; to vacate proceedings in a cause.
Vacate  To defeat; to put an end to.
Vacation  The act of vacating; a making void or of no force; as, the vacation of an office or a charter.
Vacation  Intermission of a stated employment, procedure, or office; a period of intermission; rest; leisure.
Vacation  Intermission of judicial proceedings; the space of time between the end of one term and the beginning of the next; nonterm; recess.
Vacation  The intermission of the regular studies and exercises of an educational institution between terms; holidays; as, the spring vacation.
Vacation  The time when an office is vacant; esp. (Eccl.), the time when a see, or other spiritual dignity, is vacant.
Vaccary  A cow house, dairy house, or cow pasture.
Vaccina  Vaccinia.
Vaccinal  Of or pertaining to vaccinia or vaccination.
Vaccinated  of Vaccinate
Vaccinating  of Vaccinate
Vaccinate  To inoculate with the cowpox by means of a virus, called vaccine, taken either directly or indirectly from cows.
Vaccination  The act, art, or practice of vaccinating, or inoculating with the cowpox, in order to prevent or mitigate an attack of smallpox. Cf. Inoculation.
Vaccinator  One who, or that which, vaccinates.
Vaccine  Of or pertaining to cows; pertaining to, derived from, or caused by, vaccinia; as, vaccine virus; the vaccine disease.
Vaccine  The virus of vaccinia used in vaccination.
Vaccine  any preparation used to render an organism immune to some disease, by inducing or increasing the natural immunity mechanisms. Prior to 1995, such preparations usually contained killed organisms of the type for which immunity was desired, and sometimes used live organisms having attenuated virulence. since that date, preparations containing only specific antigenic portions of the pathogenic organism are also used, some of which are prepared by genetic engineering techniques.
Vaccinia  Cowpox; vaccina. See Cowpox.
Vaccinist  A vaccinator.
Vaccinium  A genus of ericaceous shrubs including the various kinds of blueberries and the true cranberries.
Vacher  A keeper of stock or cattle; a herdsman.
Vachery  An inclosure for cows.
Vachery  A dairy.
Vacillancy  The quality or state of being vacillant, or wavering.
Vacillant  Vacillating; wavering; fluctuating; irresolute.
Vacillated  of Vacillate
Vacillating  of Vacillate
Vacillate  To move one way and the other; to reel or stagger; to waver.
Vacillate  To fluctuate in mind or opinion; to be unsteady or inconstant; to waver.
Vacillating  Inclined to fluctuate; wavering.
Vacillation  The act of vacillating; a moving one way and the other; a wavering.
Vacillatory  Inclined to vacillate; wavering; irresolute.
Vacuate  To make void, or empty.
Vacuation  The act of emptying; evacuation.
Vacuist  One who holds the doctrine that the space between the bodies of the universe, or the molecules and atoms of matter., is a vacuum; -- opposed to plenist.
Vacuity  The quality or state of being vacuous, or not filled; emptiness; vacancy; as, vacuity of mind; vacuity of countenance.
Vacuity  Space unfilled or unoccupied, or occupied with an invisible fluid only; emptiness; void; vacuum.
Vacuity  Want of reality; inanity; nihility.
Vacuna  The goddess of rural leisure, to whom the husbandmen sacrificed at the close of the harvest. She was especially honored by the Sabines.
Vacuolated  Full of vacuoles, or small air cavities; as, vacuolated cells.
Vacuolation  Formation into, or multiplication of, vacuoles.
Vacuole  A small air cell, or globular space, in the interior of organic cells, either containing air, or a pellucid watery liquid, or some special chemical secretions of the cell protoplasm.
Vacuous  Empty; unfilled; void; vacant.
Vacuousness  The quality or state of being vacuous; emptiness; vacuity.
Vacuums  of Vacuum
Vacua  of Vacuum
Vacuum  A space entirely devoid of matter (called also, by way of distinction, absolute vacuum); hence, in a more general sense, a space, as the interior of a closed vessel, which has been exhausted to a high or the highest degree by an air pump or other artificial means; as, water boils at a reduced temperature in a vacuum.
Vacuum  The condition of rarefaction, or reduction of pressure below that of the atmosphere, in a vessel, as the condenser of a steam engine, which is nearly exhausted of air or steam, etc.; as, a vacuum of 26 inches of mercury, or 13 pounds per square inch.
Vadantes  An extensive artificial group of birds including the wading, swimming, and cursorial birds.
Vade  To fade; hence, to vanish.
Vade  A book or other thing that a person carries with him as a constant companion; a manual; a handbook.
Vadimony  A bond or pledge for appearance before a judge on a certain day.
Vadium  Pledge; security; bail. See Mortgage.
Vae  See Voe.
Vafrous  Crafty; cunning; sly; as, vafrous tricks.
Vagabond  Moving from place to place without a settled habitation; wandering.
Vagabond  Floating about without any certain direction; driven to and fro.
Vagabond  Being a vagabond; strolling and idle or vicious.
Vagabond  One who wanders from place to place, having no fixed dwelling, or not abiding in it, and usually without the means of honest livelihood; a vagrant; a tramp; hence, a worthless person; a rascal.
Vagabond  To play the vagabond; to wander like a vagabond; to stroll.
Vagabondage  The condition of a vagabond; a state or habit of wandering about in idleness; vagrancy.
Vagabondism  Vagabondage.
Vagabondize  To play the vagabond; to wander about in idleness.
Vagabondry  Vagabondage.
Vagal  Of or pertaining to the vagus, or pneumogastric nerves; pneumogastric.
Vagancy  A wandering; vagrancy.
Vagantes  A tribe of spiders, comprising some of those which take their prey in a web, but which also frequently run with agility, and chase and seize their prey.
Vagarious  Given to, or characterized by, vagaries; capricious; whimsical; crochety.
Vagaries  of Vagary
Vagary  A wandering or strolling.
Vagary  Hence, a wandering of the thoughts; a wild or fanciful freak; a whim; a whimsical purpose.
Vagient  Crying like a child.
Vaginae  of Vagina
Vagina  A sheath; a theca; as, the vagina of the portal vein.
Vagina  Specifically, the canal which leads from the uterus to the external orifice if the genital canal, or to the cloaca.
Vagina  The terminal part of the oviduct in insects and various other invertebrates. See Illust., of Spermatheca.
Vagina  The basal expansion of certain leaves, which inwraps the stem; a sheath.
Vagina  The shaft of a terminus, from which the bust of figure seems to issue or arise.
Vaginal  Of or pertaining to a vagina; resembling a vagina, or sheath; thecal; as, a vaginal synovial membrane; the vaginal process of the temporal bone.
Vaginal  Of or pertaining to the vagina of the genital canal; as, the vaginal artery.
Vaginant  Serving to in invest, or sheathe; sheathing.
Vaginate  Alt. of Vaginated
Vaginated  Invested with, or as if with, a sheath; as, a vaginate stem, or one invested by the tubular base of a leaf.
Vaginati  A tribe of birds comprising the sheathbills.
Vaginervose  Having the nerves, or veins, placed in apparent disorder.
Vaginicola  A genus of Infusoria which form minute vaselike or tubular cases in which they dwell.
Vaginismus  A painful spasmodic contraction of the vagina, often rendering copulation impossible.
Vaginitis  Inflammation of the vagina, or the genital canal, usually of its mucous living membrane.
Vaginopennous  Having elytra; sheath-winged.
Vaginula  A little sheath, as that about the base of the pedicel of most mosses.
Vaginula  One of the tubular florets in composite flowers.
Vaginule  A vaginula.
Vagissate  To caper or frolic.
Vagous  Wandering; unsettled.
Vagrancy  The quality or state of being a vagrant; a wandering without a settled home; an unsettled condition; vagabondism.
Vagrant  Moving without certain direction; wandering; erratic; unsettled.
Vagrant  Wandering from place to place without any settled habitation; as, a vagrant beggar.
Vagrant  One who strolls from place to place; one who has no settled habitation; an idle wanderer; a sturdy beggar; an incorrigible rogue; a vagabond.
Vagrantly  In a vagrant manner.
Vagrantness  State of being vagrant; vagrancy.
Vague  Wandering; vagrant; vagabond.
Vague  Unsettled; unfixed; undetermined; indefinite; ambiguous; as, a vague idea; a vague proposition.
Vague  Proceeding from no known authority; unauthenticated; uncertain; flying; as, a vague report.
Vague  An indefinite expanse.
Vague  To wander; to roam; to stray.
Vague  A wandering; a vagary.
Vaguely  In a vague manner.
Vagueness  The quality or state of being vague.
Vagus  Wandering; -- applied especially to the pneumogastric nerve.
Vagus  The vagus, ore pneumogastric, nerve.
Vail  Same as Veil.
Vail  Avails; profit; return; proceeds.
Vail  An unexpected gain or acquisition; a casual advantage or benefit; a windfall.
Vail  Money given to servants by visitors; a gratuity; -- usually in the plural.
Vail  To let fail; to allow or cause to sink.
Vail  To lower, or take off, in token of inferiority, reverence, submission, or the like.
Vail  To yield or recede; to give place; to show respect by yielding, uncovering, or the like.
Vail  Submission; decline; descent.
Vailer  One who vails.
Vaimure  An outer, or exterior. wall. See Vauntmure.
Vain  Having no real substance, value, or importance; empty; void; worthless; unsatisfying.
Vain  Destitute of forge or efficacy; effecting no purpose; fruitless; ineffectual; as, vain toil; a vain attempt.
Vain  Proud of petty things, or of trifling attainments; having a high opinion of one's own accomplishments with slight reason; conceited; puffed up; inflated.
Vain  Showy; ostentatious.
Vain  Vanity; emptiness; -- now used only in the phrase in vain.
Vainglorious  Feeling or indicating vainglory; elated by vanity; boastful.
Vainglory  Excessive vanity excited by one's own performances; empty pride; undue elation of mind; vain show; boastfulness.
Vainly  In a vain manner; in vain.
Vainness  The quality or state of being vain.
Vair  The skin of the squirrel, much used in the fourteenth century as fur for garments, and frequently mentioned by writers of that period in describing the costly dresses of kings, nobles, and prelates. It is represented in heraldry by a series of small shields placed close together, and alternately white and blue.
Vairy  Charged with vair; variegated with shield-shaped figures. See Vair.
Vaishnava  A worshiper of the god Vishnu in any of his incarnations.
Vaishnavism  The worship of Vishnu.
Vaisya  The third of the four great original castes among the Hindus, now either extinct or partially represented by the mercantile class of Banyas. See the Note under Caste, 1.
Vaivode  See Waywode.
Vakeel  A native attorney or agent; also, an ambassador.
Valance  Hanging drapery for a bed, couch, window, or the like, especially that which hangs around a bedstead, from the bed to the floor.
Valance  The drooping edging of the lid of a trunk. which covers the joint when the lid is closed.
Valanced  of Valance
Valancing  of Valance
Valance  To furnish with a valance; to decorate with hangings or drapery.
Vale  A tract of low ground, or of land between hills; a valley.
Vale  See 2d Vail, 3.
Valediction  A farewell; a bidding farewell.
Valedictorian  One who pronounces a valedictory address; especially, in American colleges, the student who pronounces the valedictory of the graduating class at the annual commencement, usually the student who ranks first in scholarship.
Valedictory  Bidding farewell; suitable or designed for an occasion of leave-taking; as, a valedictory oration.
Valedictories  of Valedictory
Valedictory  A valedictory oration or address spoken at commencement in American colleges or seminaries by one of the graduating class, usually by the leading scholar.
Valence  The degree of combining power of an atom (or radical) as shown by the number of atoms of hydrogen (or of other monads, as chlorine, sodium, etc.) with which it will combine, or for which it can be substituted, or with which it can be compared; thus, an atom of hydrogen is a monad, and has a valence of one; the atoms of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon are respectively dyads, triads, and tetrads, and have a valence respectively of two, three, and four.
Valencia  A kind of woven fabric for waistcoats, having the weft of wool and the warp of silk or cotton.
Valenciennes  A rich kind of lace made at Valenciennes, in France. Each piece is made throughout, ground and pattern, by the same person and with the same thread, the pattern being worked in the net.
Valencies  of Valency
Valency  See Valence.
Valency  A unit of combining power; a so-called bond of affinity.
Valentia  See Valencia.
Valentine  A sweetheart chosen on St. Valentine's Day.
Valentine  A letter containing professions of love, or a missive of a sentimental, comic, or burlesque character, sent on St. Valentine's Day.
Valentinian  One of a school of Judaizing Gnostics in the second century; -- so called from Valentinus, the founder.
Valeramide  The acid amide derivative of valeric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Valerate  A salt of valeric acid.
Valerian  Any plant of the genus Valeriana. The root of the officinal valerian (V. officinalis) has a strong smell, and is much used in medicine as an antispasmodic.
Valerianaceous  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of a natural order (Valerianaccae) of which the valerian is the type. The order includes also the corn salads and the oriental spikenard.
Valerianate  A valerate.
Valerianic  Performance to, or obtained from, valerian root; specifically, designating an acid which is usually called valeric acid.
Valeric  Valerianic; specifically, designating any one of three metameric acids, of which the typical one (called also inactive valeric acid), C4H9CO2H, is obtained from valerian root and other sources, as a corrosive, mobile, oily liquid, having a strong acid taste, and an odor of old cheese.
Valeridine  A base, C10H19N, produced by heating valeric aldehyde with ammonia. It is probably related to the conine alkaloids.
Valerin  A salt of valeric acid with glycerin, occurring in butter, dolphin oil., and forming an forming an oily liquid with a slightly unpleasant odor.
Valeritrine  A base, C15H27N, produced together with valeridine, which it resembles.
Valero-  A combining form (also used adjectively) indicating derivation from, or relation to, valerian or some of its products, as valeric acid; as in valerolactone, a colorless oily liquid produced as the anhydride of an hydroxy valeric acid.
Valerone  A ketone of valeric acid obtained as an oily liquid.
Valeryl  The hypothetical radical C5H9O, regarded as the essential nucleus of certain valeric acid derivatives.
Valerylene  A liquid hydrocarbon, C5H8; -- called also pentine.
Valet  A male waiting servant; a servant who attends on gentleman's person; a body servant.
Valet  A kind of goad or stick with a point of iron.
Valetudinarian  Of infirm health; seeking to recover health; sickly; weakly; infirm.
Valetudinarian  A person of a weak or sickly constitution; one who is seeking to recover health.
Valetudinarianism  The condition of a valetudinarian; a state of feeble health; infirmity.
Valetudinary  Infirm; sickly; valetudinarian.
Valetudinary  A valetudinarian.
Valetudinous  Valetudinarian.
Valhalla  The palace of immortality, inhabited by the souls of heroes slain in battle.
Valhalla  Fig.: A hall or temple adorned with statues and memorials of a nation's heroes; specifically, the Pantheon near Ratisbon, in Bavaria, consecrated to the illustrious dead of all Germany.
Valiance  Alt. of Valiancy
Valiancy  The quality or state of being valiant; bravery; valor.
Valiant  Vigorous in body; strong; powerful; as, a valiant fencer.
Valiant  Intrepid in danger; courageous; brave.
Valiant  Performed with valor or bravery; heroic.
Valid  Strong; powerful; efficient.
Valid  Having sufficient strength or force; founded in truth; capable of being justified, defended, or supported; not weak or defective; sound; good; efficacious; as, a valid argument; a valid objection.
Valid  Having legal strength or force; executed with the proper formalities; incapable of being rightfully overthrown or set aside; as, a valid deed; a valid covenant; a valid instrument of any kind; a valid claim or title; a valid marriage.
Validate  To confirm; to render valid; to give legal force to.
Validation  The act of giving validity.
Validity  The quality or state of being valid; strength; force; especially, power to convince; justness; soundness; as, the validity of an argument or proof; the validity of an objection.
Validity  Legal strength, force, or authority; that quality of a thing which renders it supportable in law, or equity; as, the validity of a will; the validity of a contract, claim, or title.
Validity  Value.
Validly  In a valid manner; so as to be valid.
Validness  The quality or state of being valid.
Valinch  A tube for drawing liquors from a cask by the bunghole.
Valise  A small sack or case, usually of leather, but sometimes of other material, for containing the clothes, toilet articles, etc., of a traveler; a traveling bag; a portmanteau.
Valkyria  One of the maidens of Odin, represented as awful and beautiful, who presided over battle and marked out those who were to be slain, and who also ministered at the feasts of heroes in Valhalla.
Valkyrian  Of or pertaining to the Valkyrias; hence, relating to battle.
Vallancy  A large wig that shades the face.
Vallar  Of or pertaining to a rampart.
Vallar  A vallar crown.
Vallary  Same as Vallar.
Vallation  A rampart or intrenchment.
Vallatory  Of or pertaining to a vallation; used for a vallation; as, vallatory reads.
Valleculae  of Vallecula
Vallecula  A groove; a fossa; as, the vallecula, or fossa, which separates the hemispheres of the cerebellum.
Vallecula  One of the grooves, or hollows, between the ribs of the fruit of umbelliferous plants.
Vallet's  Pills containing sulphate of iron and carbonate of sodium, mixed with saccharine matter; -- called also Vallet's mass.
Valleys  of Valley
Valley  The space inclosed between ranges of hills or mountains; the strip of land at the bottom of the depressions intersecting a country, including usually the bed of a stream, with frequently broad alluvial plains on one or both sides of the stream. Also used figuratively.
Valley  The place of meeting of two slopes of a roof, which have their plates running in different directions, and form on the plan a reentrant angle.
Valley  The depression formed by the meeting of two slopes on a flat roof.
Valla  of Vallum
Vallums  of Vallum
Vallum  A rampart; a wall, as in a fortification.
Valonia  The acorn cup of two kinds of oak (Quercus macrolepis, and Q. vallonea) found in Eastern Europe. It contains abundance of tannin, and is much used by tanners and dyers.
Valonia  A genus of marine green algae, in which the whole frond consists of a single oval or cylindrical cell, often an inch in length.
Valor  Value; worth.
Valor  Strength of mind in regard to danger; that quality which enables a man to encounter danger with firmness; personal bravery; courage; prowess; intrepidity.
Valor  A brave man; a man of valor.
Valorous  Possessing or exhibiting valor; brave; courageous; valiant; intrepid.
Valsalvian  Of or pertaining to Valsalva, an Italian anatomist of the 17th century.
Valuable  Having value or worth; possessing qualities which are useful and esteemed; precious; costly; as, a valuable horse; valuable land; a valuable cargo.
Valuable  Worthy; estimable; deserving esteem; as, a valuable friend; a valuable companion.
Valuable  A precious possession; a thing of value, especially a small thing, as an article of jewelry; -- used mostly in the plural.
Valuableness  The quality of being valuable.
Valuably  So as to be of value.
Valuation  The act of valuing, or of estimating value or worth; the act of setting a price; estimation; appraisement; as, a valuation of lands for the purpose of taxation.
Valuation  Value set upon a thing; estimated value or worth; as, the goods sold for more than their valuation.
Valuator  One who assesses, or sets a value on, anything; an appraiser.
Value  The property or aggregate properties of a thing by which it is rendered useful or desirable, or the degree of such property or sum of properties; worth; excellence; utility; importance.
Value  Worth estimated by any standard of purchasing power, especially by the market price, or the amount of money agreed upon as an equivalent to the utility and cost of anything.
Value  Precise signification; import; as, the value of a word; the value of a legal instrument
Value  Esteem; regard.
Value  The relative length or duration of a tone or note, answering to quantity in prosody; thus, a quarter note [/] has the value of two eighth notes [/].
Value  In an artistical composition, the character of any one part in its relation to other parts and to the whole; -- often used in the plural; as, the values are well given, or well maintained.
Value  Valor.
Valued  of Value
Valuing  of Value
Value  To estimate the value, or worth, of; to rate at a certain price; to appraise; to reckon with respect to number, power, importance, etc.
Value  To rate highly; to have in high esteem; to hold in respect and estimation; to appreciate; to prize; as, to value one for his works or his virtues.
Value  To raise to estimation; to cause to have value, either real or apparent; to enhance in value.
Value  To be worth; to be equal to in value.
Valued  Highly regarded; esteemed; prized; as, a valued contributor; a valued friend.
Valueless  Being of no value; having no worth.
Valuer  One who values; an appraiser.
Valure  Value.
Valvasor  See Vavasor.
Valvata  A genus of small spiral fresh-water gastropods having an operculum.
Valvate  Resembling, or serving as, a valve; consisting of, or opening by, a valve or valves; valvular.
Valvate  Meeting at the edges without overlapping; -- said of the sepals or the petals of flowers in aestivation, and of leaves in vernation.
Valvate  Opening as if by doors or valves, as most kinds of capsules and some anthers.
Valve  A door; especially, one of a pair of folding doors, or one of the leaves of such a door.
Valve  A lid, plug, or cover, applied to an aperture so that by its movement, as by swinging, lifting and falling, sliding, turning, or the like, it will open or close the aperture to permit or prevent passage, as of a fluid.
Valve  One or more membranous partitions, flaps, or folds, which permit the passage of the contents of a vessel or cavity in one direction, but stop or retard the flow in the opposite direction; as, the ileocolic, mitral, and semilunar valves.
Valve  One of the pieces into which a capsule naturally separates when it bursts.
Valve  One of the two similar portions of the shell of a diatom.
Valve  A small portion of certain anthers, which opens like a trapdoor to allow the pollen to escape, as in the barberry.
Valve  One of the pieces or divisions of bivalve or multivalve shells.
Valved  Having a valve or valve; valvate.
Valvelet  A little valve; a valvule; especially, one of the pieces which compose the outer covering of a pericarp.
Valve-shell  Any fresh-water gastropod of the genus Valvata.
Valvulae  of Valvula
Valvula  A little valve or fold; a valvelet; a valvule.
Valvular  Of or pertaining to a valve or valves; specifically (Med.), of or pertaining to the valves of the heart; as, valvular disease.
Valvular  Containing valves; serving as a valve; opening by valves; valvate; as, a valvular capsule.
Valvule  A little valve; a valvelet.
Valvule  A small valvelike process.
Valylene  A volatile liquid hydrocarbon, C5H6, related to ethylene and acetylene, but possessing the property of unsaturation in the third degree. It is the only known member of a distinct series of compounds. It has a garlic odor.
Vambrace  The piece designed to protect the arm from the elbow to the wrist.
Vamose  To depart quickly; to depart from.
Vamp  To advance; to travel.
Vamp  The part of a boot or shoe above the sole and welt, and in front of the ankle seam; an upper.
Vamp  Any piece added to an old thing to give it a new appearance. See Vamp, v. t.
Vamped  of Vamp
Vamping  of Vamp
Vamp  To provide, as a shoe, with new upper leather; hence, to piece, as any old thing, with a new part; to repair; to patch; -- often followed by up.
Vamper  One who vamps; one who pieces an old thing with something new; a cobbler.
Vamper  To swagger; to make an ostentatious show.
Vampire  A blood-sucking ghost; a soul of a dead person superstitiously believed to come from the grave and wander about by night sucking the blood of persons asleep, thus causing their death. This superstition is now prevalent in parts of Eastern Europe, and was especially current in Hungary about the year 1730.
Vampire  Fig.: One who lives by preying on others; an extortioner; a bloodsucker.
Vampire  Either one of two or more species of South American blood-sucking bats belonging to the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. These bats are destitute of molar teeth, but have strong, sharp cutting incisors with which they make punctured wounds from which they suck the blood of horses, cattle, and other animals, as well as man, chiefly during sleep. They have a caecal appendage to the stomach, in which the blood with which they gorge themselves is stored.
Vampire  Any one of several species of harmless tropical American bats of the genus Vampyrus, especially V. spectrum. These bats feed upon insects and fruit, but were formerly erroneously supposed to suck the blood of man and animals. Called also false vampire.
Vampirism  Belief in the existence of vampires.
Vampirism  The actions of a vampire; the practice of bloodsucking.
Vampirism  Fig.: The practice of extortion.
Vamplate  A round of iron on the shaft of a tilting spear, to protect the hand.
Vamure  See Vauntmure.
Van  The front of an army; the first line or leading column; also, the front line or foremost division of a fleet, either in sailing or in battle.
Van  A shovel used in cleansing ore.
Van  To wash or cleanse, as a small portion of ore, on a shovel.
Van  A light wagon, either covered or open, used by tradesmen and others fore the transportation of goods.
Van  A large covered wagon for moving furniture, etc., also for conveying wild beasts, etc., for exhibition.
Van  A close railway car for baggage. See the Note under Car, 2.
Van  A fan or other contrivance, as a sieve, for winnowing grain.
Van  A wing with which the air is beaten.
Van  To fan, or to cleanse by fanning; to winnow.
Vanadate  A salt of vanadic acid.
Vanadic  Pertaining to, or obtained from, vanadium; containing vanadium; specifically distinguished those compounds in which vanadium has a relatively higher valence as contrasted with the vanadious compounds; as, vanadic oxide.
Vanadinite  A mineral occurring in yellowish, and ruby-red hexagonal crystals. It consist of lead vanadate with a small proportion of lead chloride.
Vanadious  Pertaining to, or containing, vanadium; specifically, designating those compounds in which vanadium has a lower valence as contrasted with the vanadic compounds; as, vanadious acid.
Vanadite  A salt of vanadious acid, analogous to a nitrite or a phosphite.
Vanadium  A rare element of the nitrogen-phosphorus group, found combined, in vanadates, in certain minerals, and reduced as an infusible, grayish-white metallic powder. It is intermediate between the metals and the non-metals, having both basic and acid properties. Symbol V (or Vd, rarely). Atomic weight 51.2.
Vanadous  Of or pertaining to vanadium; obtained from vanadium; -- said of an acid containing one equivalent of vanadium and two of oxygen.
Vanadyl  The hypothetical radical VO, regarded as a characterized residue of certain vanadium compounds.
Van-courier  One sent in advance; an avant-courier; a precursor.
Vandal  One of a Teutonic race, formerly dwelling on the south shore of the Baltic, the most barbarous and fierce of the northern nations that plundered Rome in the 5th century, notorious for destroying the monuments of art and literature.
Vandal  Hence, one who willfully destroys or defaces any work of art or literature.
Vandal  Alt. of Vandalic
Vandalic  Of or pertaining to the Vandals; resembling the Vandals in barbarism and destructiveness.
Vandalism  The spirit or conduct of the Vandals; ferocious cruelty; hostility to the arts and literature, or willful destruction or defacement of their monuments.
Vandyke  Of or pertaining to the style of Vandyke the painter; used or represented by Vandyke.
Vandyke  A picture by Vandyke. Also, a Vandyke collar, or a Vandyke edge.
Vandyke  fit or furnish with a Vandyke; to form with points or scallops like a Vandyke.
Vane  A contrivance attached to some elevated object for the purpose of showing which way the wind blows; a weathercock. It is usually a plate or strip of metal, or slip of wood, often cut into some fanciful form, and placed upon a perpendicular axis around which it moves freely.
Vane  Any flat, extended surface attached to an axis and moved by the wind; as, the vane of a windmill; hence, a similar fixture of any form moved in or by water, air, or other fluid; as, the vane of a screw propeller, a fan blower, an anemometer, etc.
Vane  The rhachis and web of a feather taken together.
Vane  One of the sights of a compass, quadrant, etc.
Vanessa  Any one of numerous species of handsomely colored butterflies belonging to Vanessa and allied genera. Many of these species have the edges of the wings irregularly scalloped.
Vanessian  A vanessa.
Vanfess  A ditch on the outside of the counterscarp, usually full of water.
Vang  A rope to steady the peak of a gaff.
Vanglo  Benne (Sesamum orientale); also, its seeds; -- so called in the West Indies.
Vanguard  The troops who march in front of an army; the advance guard; the van.
Vanilla  A genus of climbing orchidaceous plants, natives of tropical America.
Vanilla  The long podlike capsules of Vanilla planifolia, and V. claviculata, remarkable for their delicate and agreeable odor, for the volatile, odoriferous oil extracted from them; also, the flavoring extract made from the capsules, extensively used in confectionery, perfumery, etc.
Vanillate  A salt of vanillic acid.
Vanillic  Pertaining to, or derived from, vanilla or vanillin; resembling vanillin; specifically, designating an alcohol and an acid respectively, vanillin being the intermediate aldehyde.
Vanillin  A white crystalline aldehyde having a burning taste and characteristic odor of vanilla. It is extracted from vanilla pods, and is also obtained by the decomposition of coniferin, and by the oxidation of eugenol.
Vanilloes  An inferior kind of vanilla, the pods of Vanilla Pompona.
Vanillyl  The hypothetical radical characteristic of vanillic alcohol.
Vaniloquence  Vain or foolish talk.
Vanished  of Vanish
Vanishing  of Vanish
Vanish  To pass from a visible to an invisible state; to go out of sight; to disappear; to fade; as, vapor vanishes from the sight by being dissipated; a ship vanishes from the sight of spectators on land.
Vanish  To be annihilated or lost; to pass away.
Vanish  The brief terminal part of vowel or vocal element, differing more or less in quality from the main part; as, a as in ale ordinarily ends with a vanish of i as in ill, o as in old with a vanish of oo as in foot.
Vanishing  a. & n. from Vanish, v.
Vanishment  A vanishing.
Vanities  of Vanity
Vanity  The quality or state of being vain; want of substance to satisfy desire; emptiness; unsubstantialness; unrealness; falsity.
Vanity  An inflation of mind upon slight grounds; empty pride inspired by an overweening conceit of one's personal attainments or decorations; an excessive desire for notice or approval; pride; ostentation; conceit.
Vanity  That which is vain; anything empty, visionary, unreal, or unsubstantial; fruitless desire or effort; trifling labor productive of no good; empty pleasure; vain pursuit; idle show; unsubstantial enjoyment.
Vanity  One of the established characters in the old moralities and puppet shows. See Morality, n., 5.
Vanjas  The Australian pied crow shrike (Strepera graculina). It is glossy bluish black, with the under tail coverts and the tips and bases of the tail feathers white.
Vanner  A machine for concentrating ore. See Frue vanner.
Vanner  The kestrel.
Vanning  A process by which ores are washed on a shovel, or in a vanner.
Vanquished  of Vanquish
Vanquishing  of Vanquish
Vanquish  To conquer, overcome, or subdue in battle, as an enemy.
Vanquish  Hence, to defeat in any contest; to get the better of; to put down; to refute.
Vanquish  A disease in sheep, in which they pine away.
Vanquishable  That may be vanquished.
Vanquisher  One who, or that which, vanquishes.
Vanquishment  The act of vanquishing, or the state of being vanquished.
Vansire  An ichneumon (Herpestes galera) native of Southern Africa and Madagascar. It is reddish brown or dark brown, grizzled with white. Called also vondsira, and marsh ichneumon.
Vant  See Vaunt.
Vantage  superior or more favorable situation or opportunity; gain; profit; advantage.
Vantage  The first point after deuce.
Vantage  To profit; to aid.
Vantbrace  Alt. of Vantbrass
Vantbrass  Armor for the arm; vambrace.
Vant-courier  An avant-courier. See Van-courier.
Vanward  Being on, or towards, the van, or front.
Vap  That which is vapid, insipid, or lifeless; especially, the lifeless part of liquor or wine.
Vapid  Having lost its life and spirit; dead; spiritless; insipid; flat; dull; unanimated; as, vapid beer; a vapid speech; a vapid state of the blood.
Vapidity  The quality or state of being vapid; vapidness.
Vapor  Any substance in the gaseous, or aeriform, state, the condition of which is ordinarily that of a liquid or solid.
Vapor  In a loose and popular sense, any visible diffused substance floating in the atmosphere and impairing its transparency, as smoke, fog, etc.
Vapor  Wind; flatulence.
Vapor  Something unsubstantial, fleeting, or transitory; unreal fancy; vain imagination; idle talk; boasting.
Vapor  An old name for hypochondria, or melancholy; the blues.
Vapor  A medicinal agent designed for administration in the form of inhaled vapor.
Vapored  of Vapor
Vaporing  of Vapor
Vapor  To pass off in fumes, or as a moist, floating substance, whether visible or invisible, to steam; to be exhaled; to evaporate.
Vapor  To emit vapor or fumes.
Vapor  To talk idly; to boast or vaunt; to brag.
Vapor  To send off in vapor, or as if in vapor; as, to vapor away a heated fluid.
Vaporability  The quality or state of being vaporable.
Vaporable  Capable of being converted into vapor by the agency of heat; vaporizable.
Vaporate  To emit vapor; to evaporate.
Vaporation  The act or process of converting into vapor, or of passing off in vapor; evaporation.
Vapored  Wet with vapors; moist.
Vapored  Affected with the vapors. See Vapor, n., 5.
Vaporer  One who vapors; a braggart.
Vaporiferous  Conveying or producing vapor.
Vaporific  Producing vapor; tending to pass, or to cause to pass, into vapor; thus, volatile fluids are vaporific; heat is a vaporific agent.
Vaporiform  Existing in a vaporous form or state; as, steam is a vaporiform substance.
Vaporimeter  An instrument for measuring the volume or the tension of any vapor; specifically, an instrument of this sort used as an alcoholometer in testing spirituous liquors.
Vaporing  Talking idly; boasting; vaunting.
Vaporish  Full of vapors; vaporous.
Vaporish  Hypochondriacal; affected by hysterics; splenetic; peevish; humorsome.
Vaporizable  Capable of being vaporized into vapor.
Vaporization  The act or process of vaporizing, or the state of being converted into vapor; the artificial formation of vapor; specifically, the conversion of water into steam, as in a steam boiler.
Vaporized  of Vaporize
Vaporizing  of Vaporize
Vaporize  To convert into vapor, as by the application of heat, whether naturally or artificially.
Vaporize  To pass off in vapor.
Vaporizer  One who, or that which, vaporizes, or converts into vapor.
Vaporose  Full of vapor; vaporous.
Vaporous  Having the form or nature of vapor.
Vaporous  Full of vapors or exhalations.
Vaporous  Producing vapors; hence, windy; flatulent.
Vaporous  Unreal; unsubstantial; vain; whimsical.
Vaporousness  The quality of being vaporous.
Vapory  Full of vapors; vaporous.
Vapory  Hypochondriacal; splenetic; peevish.
Vapulation  The act of beating or whipping.
Vaquero  One who has charge of cattle, horses, etc.; a herdsman.
Vara  A Spanish measure of length equal to about one yard. The vara now in use equals 33.385 inches.
Varan  The monitor. See Monitor, 3.
Varangian  One of the Northmen who founded a dynasty in Russia in the 9th century; also, one of the Northmen composing, at a later date, the imperial bodyguard at Constantinople.
Varanus  A genus of very large lizards native of Asia and Africa. It includes the monitors. See Monitor, 3.
Vare  A wand or staff of authority or justice.
Vare  A weasel.
Varec  The calcined ashes of any coarse seaweed used for the manufacture of soda and iodine; also, the seaweed itself; fucus; wrack.
Vari  The ringtailed lemur (Lemur catta) of Madagascar. Its long tail is annulated with black and white.
Variability  The quality or state of being variable; variableness.
Variability  The power possessed by living organisms, both animal and vegetable, of adapting themselves to modifications or changes in their environment, thus possibly giving rise to ultimate variation of structure or function.
Variable  Having the capacity of varying or changing; capable of alternation in any manner; changeable; as, variable winds or seasons; a variable quantity.
Variable  Liable to vary; too susceptible of change; mutable; fickle; unsteady; inconstant; as, the affections of men are variable; passions are variable.
Variable  That which is variable; that which varies, or is subject to change.
Variable  A quantity which may increase or decrease; a quantity which admits of an infinite number of values in the same expression; a variable quantity; as, in the equation x2 - y2 = R2, x and y are variables.
Variable  A shifting wind, or one that varies in force.
Variable  Those parts of the sea where a steady wind is not expected, especially the parts between the trade-wind belts.
Variableness  The quality or state of being variable; variability.
Variably  In a variable manner.
Variance  The quality or state of being variant; change of condition; variation.
Variance  Difference that produce dispute or controversy; disagreement; dissension; discord; dispute; quarrel.
Variance  A disagreement or difference between two parts of the same legal proceeding, which, to be effectual, ought to agree, -- as between the writ and the declaration, or between the allegation and the proof.
Variant  Varying in from, character, or the like; variable; different; diverse.
Variant  Changeable; changing; fickle.
Variant  Something which differs in form from another thing, though really the same; as, a variant from a type in natural history; a variant of a story or a word.
Variate  To alter; to make different; to vary.
Variation  The act of varying; a partial change in the form, position, state, or qualities of a thing; modification; alternation; mutation; diversity; deviation; as, a variation of color in different lights; a variation in size; variation of language.
Variation  Extent to which a thing varies; amount of departure from a position or state; amount or rate of change.
Variation  Change of termination of words, as in declension, conjugation, derivation, etc.
Variation  Repetition of a theme or melody with fanciful embellishments or modifications, in time, tune, or harmony, or sometimes change of key; the presentation of a musical thought in new and varied aspects, yet so that the essential features of the original shall still preserve their identity.
Variation  One of the different arrangements which can be made of any number of quantities taking a certain number of them together.
Varicella  Chicken pox.
Varices  See Varix.
Variciform  Resembling a varix.
Varicocele  A varicose enlargement of the veins of the spermatic cord; also, a like enlargement of the veins of the scrotum.
Varicose  Irregularly swollen or enlarged; affected with, or containing, varices, or varicosities; of or pertaining to varices, or varicosities; as, a varicose nerve fiber; a varicose vein; varicose ulcers.
Varicose  Intended for the treatment of varicose veins; -- said of elastic stockings, bandages. and the like.
Varicosity  The quality or state of being varicose.
Varicosity  An enlargement or swelling in a vessel, fiber, or the like; a varix; as, the varicosities of nerve fibers.
Varicous  Varicose.
Varied  Changed; altered; various; diversified; as, a varied experience; varied interests; varied scenery.
Variegated  of Variegate
Variegating  of Variegate
Variegate  To diversify in external appearance; to mark with different colors; to dapple; to streak; as, to variegate a floor with marble of different colors.
Variegated  Having marks or patches of different colors; as, variegated leaves, or flowers.
Variegation  The act of variegating or diversifying, or the state of being diversified, by different colors; diversity of colors.
Varier  A wanderer; one who strays in search of variety.
Varietal  Of or pertaining to a variety; characterizing a variety; constituting a variety, in distinction from an individual or species.
Varietas  A variety; -- used in giving scientific names, and often abbreviated to var.
Varieties  of Variety
Variety  The quality or state of being various; intermixture or succession of different things; diversity; multifariousness.
Variety  That which is various.
Variety  A number or collection of different things; a varied assortment; as, a variety of cottons and silks.
Variety  Something varying or differing from others of the same general kind; one of a number of things that are akin; a sort; as, varieties of wood, land, rocks, etc.
Variety  An individual, or group of individuals, of a species differing from the rest in some one or more of the characteristics typical of the species, and capable either of perpetuating itself for a period, or of being perpetuated by artificial means; hence, a subdivision, or peculiar form, of a species.
Variety  In inorganic nature, one of those forms in which a species may occur, which differ in minor characteristics of structure, color, purity of composition, etc.
Variform  Having different shapes or forms.
Variformed  Formed with different shapes; having various forms; variform.
Varify  To make different; to vary; to variegate.
Variola  The smallpox.
Variolar  Variolous.
Variolation  Inoculation with smallpox.
Variolic  Variolous.
Variolite  A kind of diorite or diabase containing imbedded whitish spherules, which give the rock a spotted appearance.
Variolitic  Thickly marked with small, round specks; spotted.
Variolitic  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, variolite.
Varioloid  Resembling smallpox; pertaining to the disease called varioloid.
Varioloid  The smallpox as modified by previous inoculation or vaccination.
Variolous  Of or pertaining to the smallpox; having pits, or sunken impressions, like those of the smallpox; variolar; variolic.
Variorum  Containing notes by different persons; -- applied to a publication; as, a variorum edition of a book.
Various  Different; diverse; several; manifold; as, men of various names; various occupations; various colors.
Various  Changeable; uncertain; inconstant; variable.
Various  Variegated; diversified; not monotonous.
Variously  In various or different ways.
Variscite  An apple-green mineral occurring in reniform masses. It is a hydrous phosphate of alumina.
Varisse  An imperfection on the inside of the hind leg in horses, different from a curb, but at the same height, and frequently injuring the sale of the animal by growing to an unsightly size.
Varices  of Varix
Varix  A uneven, permanent dilatation of a vein.
Varix  One of the prominent ridges or ribs extending across each of the whorls of certain univalve shells.
Vark  The bush hog, or boshvark.
Varlet  A servant, especially to a knight; an attendant; a valet; a footman.
Varlet  Hence, a low fellow; a scoundrel; a rascal; as, an impudent varlet.
Varlet  In a pack of playing cards, the court card now called the knave, or jack.
Varletry  The rabble; the crowd; the mob.
Varnish  A viscid liquid, consisting of a solution of resinous matter in an oil or a volatile liquid, laid on work with a brush, or otherwise. When applied the varnish soon dries, either by evaporation or chemical action, and the resinous part forms thus a smooth, hard surface, with a beautiful gloss, capable of resisting, to a greater or less degree, the influences of air and moisture.
Varnish  That which resembles varnish, either naturally or artificially; a glossy appearance.
Varnish  An artificial covering to give a fair appearance to any act or conduct; outside show; gloss.
Varnished  of Varnish
Varnishing  of Varnish
Varnish  To lay varnish on; to cover with a liquid which produces, when dry, a hard, glossy surface; as, to varnish a table; to varnish a painting.
Varnish  To cover or conceal with something that gives a fair appearance; to give a fair coloring to by words; to gloss over; to palliate; as, to varnish guilt.
Varnisher  One who varnishes; one whose occupation is to varnish.
Varnisher  One who disguises or palliates; one who gives a fair external appearance.
Varnishing  The act of laying on varnish; also, materials for varnish.
Vartabed  A doctor or teacher in the Armenian church. Members of this order of ecclesiastics frequently have charge of dioceses, with episcopal functions.
Varuna  The god of the waters; the Indian Neptune. He is regarded as regent of the west, and lord of punishment, and is represented as riding on a sea monster, holding in his hand a snaky cord or noose with which to bind offenders, under water.
Varvel  In falconry, one of the rings secured to the ends of the jesses.
Varveled  Having varvels, or rings.
Varied  of Vary
Varying  of Vary
Vary  To change the aspect of; to alter in form, appearance, substance, position, or the like; to make different by a partial change; to modify; as, to vary the properties, proportions, or nature of a thing; to vary a posture or an attitude; to vary one's dress or opinions.
Vary  To change to something else; to transmute; to exchange; to alternate.
Vary  To make of different kinds; to make different from one another; to diversity; to variegate.
Vary  To embellish; to change fancifully; to present under new aspects, as of form, key, measure, etc. See Variation, 4.
Vary  To alter, or be altered, in any manner; to suffer a partial change; to become different; to be modified; as, colors vary in different lights.
Vary  To differ, or be different; to be unlike or diverse; as, the laws of France vary from those of England.
Vary  To alter or change in succession; to alternate; as, one mathematical quantity varies inversely as another.
Vary  To deviate; to depart; to swerve; -- followed by from; as, to vary from the law, or from reason.
Vary  To disagree; to be at variance or in dissension; as, men vary in opinion.
Vary  Alteration; change.
Varying  a. & n. from Vary.
Vasa  of Vas
Vas  A vessel; a duct.
Vasa  of Vas
Vascular  Consisting of, or containing, vessels as an essential part of a structure; full of vessels; specifically (Bot.), pertaining to, or containing, special ducts, or tubes, for the circulation of sap.
Vascular  Operating by means of, or made up of an arrangement of, vessels; as, the vascular system in animals, including the arteries, veins, capillaries, lacteals, etc.
Vascular  Of or pertaining to the vessels of animal and vegetable bodies; as, the vascular functions.
Vascular  Of or pertaining to the higher division of plants, that is, the phaenogamous plants, all of which are vascular, in distinction from the cryptogams, which to a large extent are cellular only.
Vascularities  of Vascularity
Vascularity  The quality or state of being vascular.
Vasculose  One of the substances of which vegetable tissue is composed, differing from cellulose in its solubility in certain media.
Vascula  of Vasculum
Vasculum  Same as Ascidium, n., 1.
Vasculum  A tin box, commonly cylindrical or flattened, used in collecting plants.
Vase  A vessel adapted for various domestic purposes, and anciently for sacrificial uses; especially, a vessel of antique or elegant pattern used for ornament; as, a porcelain vase; a gold vase; a Grecian vase. See Illust. of Portland vase, under Portland.
Vase  A vessel similar to that described in the first definition above, or the representation of one in a solid block of stone, or the like, used for an ornament, as on a terrace or in a garden. See Illust. of Niche.
Vase  The body, or naked ground, of the Corinthian and Composite capital; -- called also tambour, and drum.
Vase  The calyx of a plant.
Vaseline  A yellowish translucent substance, almost odorless and tasteless, obtained as a residue in the purification of crude petroleum, and consisting essentially of a mixture of several of the higher members of the paraffin series. It is used as an unguent, and for various purposes in the arts. See the Note under Petrolatum.
Vase-shaped  Formed like a vase, or like a common flowerpot.
Vasiform  Having the form of a vessel, or duct.
Vasoconstrictor  Causing constriction of the blood vessels; as, the vasoconstrictor nerves, stimulation of which causes constriction of the blood vessels to which they go. These nerves are also called vasohypertonic.
Vasoconstrictor  A substance which causes constriction of the blood vessels. Such substances are used in medicine to raise blood pressure.
Vasodentine  A modified form of dentine, which is permeated by blood capillaries; vascular dentine.
Vasodilator  Causing dilation or relaxation of the blood vessels; as, the vasodilator nerves, stimulation of which causes dilation of the blood vessels to which they go. These nerves are also called vaso-inhibitory, and vasohypotonic nerves, since their stimulation causes relaxation and rest.
Vasoformative  Concerned in the development and formation of blood vessels and blood corpuscles; as, the vasoformative cells.
Vaso-inhibitory  See Vasodilator.
Vasomotor  Causing movement in the walls of vessels; as, the vasomotor mechanisms; the vasomotor nerves, a system of nerves distributed over the muscular coats of the blood vessels.
Vassal  The grantee of a fief, feud, or fee; one who holds land of superior, and who vows fidelity and homage to him; a feudatory; a feudal tenant.
Vassal  A subject; a dependent; a servant; a slave.
Vassal  Resembling a vassal; slavish; servile.
Vassal  To treat as a vassal; to subject to control; to enslave.
Vassalage  The state of being a vassal, or feudatory.
Vassalage  Political servitude; dependence; subjection; slavery; as, the Greeks were held in vassalage by the Turks.
Vassalage  A territory held in vassalage.
Vassalage  Vassals, collectively; vassalry.
Vassalage  Valorous service, such as that performed by a vassal; valor; prowess; courage.
Vassaless  A female vassal.
Vassalry  The body of vassals.
Vast  Waste; desert; desolate; lonely.
Vast  Of great extent; very spacious or large; also, huge in bulk; immense; enormous; as, the vast ocean; vast mountains; the vast empire of Russia.
Vast  Very great in numbers, quantity, or amount; as, a vast army; a vast sum of money.
Vast  Very great in importance; as, a subject of vast concern.
Vast  A waste region; boundless space; immensity.
Vastation  A laying waste; waste; depopulation; devastation.
Vastel  See Wastel.
Vastidity  Vastness; immensity.
Vastitude  Vastness; immense extent.
Vastitude  Destruction; vastation.
Vastity  Vastness.
Vastly  To a vast extent or degree; very greatly; immensely.
Vastness  The quality or state of being vast.
Vasty  Vast; immense.
Vasum  A genus including several species of large marine gastropods having massive pyriform shells, with conspicuous folds on the columella.
Vat  A large vessel, cistern, or tub, especially one used for holding in an immature state, chemical preparations for dyeing, or for tanning, or for tanning leather, or the like.
Vat  A measure for liquids, and also a dry measure; especially, a liquid measure in Belgium and Holland, corresponding to the hectoliter of the metric system, which contains 22.01 imperial gallons, or 26.4 standard gallons in the United States.
Vat  A wooden tub for washing ores and mineral substances in.
Vat  A square, hollow place on the back of a calcining furnace, where tin ore is laid to dry.
Vat  A vessel for holding holy water.
Vatted  of Vat
Vatting  of Vat
Vat  To put or transfer into a vat.
Vatfuls  of Vatful
Vatful  As much as a vat will hold; enough to fill a vat.
Vatical  Of or pertaining to a prophet; prophetical.
Vatican  A magnificent assemblage of buildings at Rome, near the church of St. Peter, including the pope's palace, a museum, a library, a famous chapel, etc.
Vaticanism  The doctrine of papal supremacy; extreme views in support of the authority of the pope; ultramontanism; -- a term used only by persons who are not Roman Catholics.
Vaticanist  One who strongly adheres to the papal authority; an ultramontanist.
Vaticide  The murder, or the murderer, of a prophet.
Vaticinal  Of or pertaining to prophecy; prophetic.
Vaticinate  To prophesy; to foretell; to practice prediction; to utter prophecies.
Vaticination  Prediction; prophecy.
Vaticinator  One who vaticinates; a prophet.
Vaticine  A prediction; a vaticination.
Vaudeville  A kind of song of a lively character, frequently embodying a satire on some person or event, sung to a familiar air in couplets with a refrain; a street song; a topical song.
Vaudeville  A theatrical piece, usually a comedy, the dialogue of which is intermingled with light or satirical songs, set to familiar airs.
Vaudois  An inhabitant, or the inhabitants, of the Swiss canton of Vaud.
Vaudois  A modern name of the Waldenses.
Vaudoux  See Voodoo.
Vault  An arched structure of masonry, forming a ceiling or canopy.
Vault  An arched apartment; especially, a subterranean room, use for storing articles, for a prison, for interment, or the like; a cell; a cellar.
Vault  The canopy of heaven; the sky.
Vault  A leap or bound.
Vault  The bound or leap of a horse; a curvet.
Vault  A leap by aid of the hands, or of a pole, springboard, or the like.
Vaulted  of Vault
Vaulting  of Vault
Vault  To form with a vault, or to cover with a vault; to give the shape of an arch to; to arch; as, vault a roof; to vault a passage to a court.
Vault  To leap over; esp., to leap over by aid of the hands or a pole; as, to vault a fence.
Vault  To leap; to bound; to jump; to spring.
Vault  To exhibit feats of tumbling or leaping; to tumble.
Vaultage  Vaulted work; also, a vaulted place; an arched cellar.
Vaulted  Arched; concave; as, a vaulted roof.
Vaulted  Covered with an arch, or vault.
Vaulted  Arched like the roof of the mouth, as the upper lip of many ringent flowers.
Vaulter  One who vaults; a leaper; a tumbler.
Vaulting  The act of constructing vaults; a vaulted construction.
Vaulting  Act of one who vaults or leaps.
Vaulty  Arched; concave.
Vaunce  To advance.
Vaunted  of Vaunt
Vaunting  of Vaunt
Vaunt  To boast; to make a vain display of one's own worth, attainments, decorations, or the like; to talk ostentatiously; to brag.
Vaunt  To boast of; to make a vain display of; to display with ostentation.
Vaunt  A vain display of what one is, or has, or has done; ostentation from vanity; a boast; a brag.
Vaunt  The first part.
Vaunt  To put forward; to display.
Vaunt-courier  See Van-courier.
Vaunter  One who vaunts; a boaster.
Vauntful  Given to vaunting or boasting; vainly ostentatious; boastful; vainglorious.
Vauntingly  In a vaunting manner.
Vauntmure  A false wall; a work raised in front of the main wall.
Vauquelinite  Chromate of copper and lead, of various shades of green.
Vaut  To vault; to leap.
Vaut  A vault; a leap.
Vauty  Vaulted.
Vavasor  The vassal or tenant of a baron; one who held under a baron, and who also had tenants under him; one in dignity next to a baron; a title of dignity next to a baron.
Vavasory  The quality or tenure of the fee held by a vavasor; also, the lands held by a vavasor.
Vaward  The fore part; van.
Vaza  Any one of several species of parrots of the genus Coracopsis, native of Madagascar; -- called also vasa parrot.
Veadar  The thirteenth, or intercalary, month of the Jewish ecclesiastical calendar, which is added about every third year.
Veal  The flesh of a calf when killed and used for food.
Vection  Vectitation.
Vectitation  The act of carrying, or state of being carried.
Vector  Same as Radius vector.
Vector  A directed quantity, as a straight line, a force, or a velocity. Vectors are said to be equal when their directions are the same their magnitudes equal. Cf. Scalar.
Vecture  The act of carrying; conveyance; carriage.
Veda  The ancient sacred literature of the Hindus; also, one of the four collections, called Rig-Veda, Yajur-Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda, constituting the most ancient portions of that literature.
Vedanta  A system of philosophy among the Hindus, founded on scattered texts of the Vedas, and thence termed the "Anta," or end or substance.
Vedantic  Of or pertaining to the Vedas.
Vedantist  One versed in the doctrines of the Vedantas.
Vedette  A sentinel, usually on horseback, stationed on the outpost of an army, to watch an enemy and give notice of danger; a vidette.
Vedro  A Russian liquid measure, equal to 3.249 gallons of U. S. standard measure, or 2.706 imperial gallons.
Veered  of Veer
Veering  of Veer
Veer  To change direction; to turn; to shift; as, wind veers to the west or north.
Veer  To direct to a different course; to turn; to wear; as, to veer, or wear, a vessel.
Veering  Shifting.
Veery  An American thrush (Turdus fuscescens) common in the Northern United States and Canada. It is light tawny brown above. The breast is pale buff, thickly spotted with brown. Called also Wilson's thrush.
Vega  A brilliant star of the first magnitude, the brightest of those constituting the constellation Lyra.
Vegetability  The quality or state of being vegetable.
Vegetable  Of or pertaining to plants; having the nature of, or produced by, plants; as, a vegetable nature; vegetable growths, juices, etc.
Vegetable  Consisting of, or comprising, plants; as, the vegetable kingdom.
Vegetable  Plants having distinct flowers and true seeds.
Vegetable  Plants without true flowers, and reproduced by minute spores of various kinds, or by simple cell division.
Vegetable  A plant. See Plant.
Vegetable  A plant used or cultivated for food for man or domestic animals, as the cabbage, turnip, potato, bean, dandelion, etc.; also, the edible part of such a plant, as prepared for market or the table.
Vegetal  Of or pertaining to vegetables, or the vegetable kingdom; of the nature of a vegetable; vegetable.
Vegetal  Of, pertaining to, or designating, that class of vital phenomena, such as digestion, absorption, assimilation, secretion, excretion, circulation, generation, etc., which are common to plants and animals, in distinction from sensation and volition, which are peculiar to animals.
Vegetal  A vegetable.
Vegetality  The quality or state of being vegetal, or vegetable.
Vegetality  The quality or state of being vegetal, or exhibiting those physiological phenomena which are common to plants and animals. See Vegetal, a., 2.
Vegetarian  One who holds that vegetables and fruits are the only proper food for man. Strict vegetarians eat no meat, eggs, or milk.
Vegetarian  Of or pertaining to vegetarianism; as, a vegetarian diet.
Vegetarianism  The theory or practice of living upon vegetables and fruits.
Vegetated  of Vegetate
Vegetating  of Vegetate
Vegetate  To grow, as plants, by nutriment imbibed by means of roots and leaves; to start into growth; to sprout; to germinate.
Vegetate  Fig.: To lead a live too low for an animate creature; to do nothing but eat and grow.
Vegetate  To grow exuberantly; to produce fleshy or warty outgrowths; as, a vegetating papule.
Vegetation  The act or process of vegetating, or growing as a plant does; vegetable growth.
Vegetation  The sum of vegetable life; vegetables or plants in general; as, luxuriant vegetation.
Vegetation  An exuberant morbid outgrowth upon any part, especially upon the valves of the heart.
Vegetative  Growing, or having the power of growing, as plants; capable of vegetating.
Vegetative  Having the power to produce growth in plants; as, the vegetative properties of soil.
Vegetative  Having relation to growth or nutrition; partaking of simple growth and enlargement of the systems of nutrition, apart from the sensorial or distinctively animal functions; vegetal.
Vegete  Lively; active; sprightly; vigorous.
Vegetive  Having the nature of a plant; vegetable; as, vegetive life.
Vegetive  A vegetable.
Vegeto-animal  Partaking of the nature both of vegetable and animal matter; -- a term sometimes applied to vegetable albumen and gluten, from their resemblance to similar animal products.
Vegetous  Vigorous; lively; active; vegete.
Vehemence  The quality pr state of being vehement; impetuous force; impetuosity; violence; fury; as, the vehemence.
Vehemence  Violent ardor; great heat; animated fervor; as, the vehemence of love, anger, or other passions.
Vehemency  Vehemence.
Vehement  Acting with great force; furious; violent; impetuous; forcible; mighty; as, vehement wind; a vehement torrent; a vehement fire or heat.
Vehement  Very ardent; very eager or urgent; very fervent; passionate; as, a vehement affection or passion.
Vehemently  In a vehement manner.
Vehicle  That in or on which any person or thing is, or may be, carried, as a coach, carriage, wagon, cart, car, sleigh, bicycle, etc.; a means of conveyance; specifically, a means of conveyance upon land.
Vehicle  That which is used as the instrument of conveyance or communication; as, matter is the vehicle of energy.
Vehicle  A substance in which medicine is taken.
Vehicle  Any liquid with which a pigment is applied, including whatever gum, wax, or glutinous or adhesive substance is combined with it.
Vehicled  Conveyed in a vehicle; furnished with a vehicle.
Vehicular  Of or pertaining to a vehicle; serving as a vehicle; as, a vehicular contrivance.
Vehiculary  Vehicular.
Vehiculate  To convey by means of a vehicle; to ride in a vehicle.
Vehiculation  Movement of vehicles.
Vehiculatory  Vehicular.
Vehmic  Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain secret tribunals which flourished in Germany from the end of the 12th century to the middle of the 16th, usurping many of the functions of the government which were too weak to maintain law and order, and inspiring dread in all who came within their jurisdiction.
Veil  Something hung up, or spread out, to intercept the view, and hide an object; a cover; a curtain; esp., a screen, usually of gauze, crape, or similar diaphnous material, to hide or protect the face.
Veil  A cover; disguise; a mask; a pretense.
Veil  The calyptra of mosses.
Veil  A membrane connecting the margin of the pileus of a mushroom with the stalk; -- called also velum.
Veil  A covering for a person or thing; as, a nun's veil; a paten veil; an altar veil.
Veil  Same as Velum, 3.
Veiled  of Veil
Veiling  of Veil
Veil  To throw a veil over; to cover with a veil.
Veil  Fig.: To invest; to cover; to hide; to conceal.
Veiled  Covered by, or as by, a veil; hidden.
Veiling  A veil; a thin covering; also, material for making veils.
Veilless  Having no veil.
Vein  One of the vessels which carry blood, either venous or arterial, to the heart. See Artery, 2.
Vein  One of the similar branches of the framework of a leaf.
Vein  One of the ribs or nervures of the wings of insects. See Venation.
Vein  A narrow mass of rock intersecting other rocks, and filling inclined or vertical fissures not corresponding with the stratification; a lode; a dike; -- often limited, in the language of miners, to a mineral vein or lode, that is, to a vein which contains useful minerals or ores.
Vein  A fissure, cleft, or cavity, as in the earth or other substance.
Vein  A streak or wave of different color, appearing in wood, and in marble and other stones; variegation.
Vein  A train of association, thoughts, emotions, or the like; a current; a course.
Vein  Peculiar temper or temperament; tendency or turn of mind; a particular disposition or cast of genius; humor; strain; quality; also, manner of speech or action; as, a rich vein of humor; a satirical vein.
Veined  of Vein
Veining  of Vein
Vein  To form or mark with veins; to fill or cover with veins.
Veinal  Pertaining to veins; venous.
Veined  Full of veins; streaked; variegated; as, veined marble.
Veined  Having fibrovascular threads extending throughout the lamina; as, a veined leaf.
Veinless  Having no veins; as, a veinless leaf.
Veinlet  A small vein.
Veinous  Marked with veins; veined; veiny.
Veinstone  The nonmetalliferous mineral or rock material which accompanies the ores in a vein, as quartz, calcite, barite, fluor spar, etc.; -- called also veinstuff.
Veiny  Full of veins; veinous; veined; as, veiny marble.
Velar  Of or pertaining to a velum; esp. (Anat.) of or pertaining to the soft palate.
Velar  Having the place of articulation on the soft palate; guttural; as, the velar consonants, such as k and hard q.
Velaria  of Velarium
Velarium  The marginal membrane of certain medusae belonging to the Discophora.
Velate  Having a veil; veiled.
Vele  A veil.
Velella  Any species of oceanic Siphonophora belonging to the genus Velella.
Veliferous  Carrying or bearing sails.
Veliger  Any larval gastropod or bivalve mollusk in the state when it is furnished with one or two ciliated membranes for swimming.
Velitation  A dispute or contest; a slight contest; a skirmish.
Velivolant  Flying with sails; passing under full sail.
Vell  The salted stomach of a calf, used in making cheese; a rennet bag.
Vell  To cut the turf from, as for burning.
Velleity  The lowest degree of desire; imperfect or incomplete volition.
Vellet  Velvet.
Vellicated  of Vellicate
Vellicating  of Vellicate
Vellicate  To twitch; to cause to twitch convulsively.
Vellicate  To move spasmodically; to twitch; as, a nerve vellicates.
Vellication  The act of twitching, or of causing to twitch.
Vellication  A local twitching, or convulsive motion, of a muscular fiber, especially of the face.
Vellicative  Having the power of vellicating, plucking, or twitching; causing vellication.
Vellon  A word occurring in the phrase real vellon. See the Note under Its Real.
Vellum  A fine kind of parchment, usually made from calfskin, and rendered clear and white, -- used as for writing upon, and for binding books.
Vellumy  Resembling vellum.
Velocimeter  An apparatus for measuring speed, as of machinery or vessels, but especially of projectiles.
Velocipede  A light road carriage propelled by the feet of the rider. Originally it was propelled by striking the tips of the toes on the roadway, but commonly now by the action of the feet on a pedal or pedals connected with the axle of one or more of the wheels, and causing their revolution. They are made in many forms, with two, three, or four wheels. See Bicycle, and Tricycle.
Velecipedist  One who rides on a velocipede.
Velocities  of Velocity
Velocity  Quickness of motion; swiftness; speed; celerity; rapidity; as, the velocity of wind; the velocity of a planet or comet in its orbit or course; the velocity of a cannon ball; the velocity of light.
Velocity  Rate of motion; the relation of motion to time, measured by the number of units of space passed over by a moving body or point in a unit of time, usually the number of feet passed over in a second. See the Note under Speed.
Velours  One of many textile fabrics having a pile like that of velvet.
Veltfare  The fieldfare.
Vela  of Velum
Velum  Curtain or covering; -- applied to various membranous partitions, especially to the soft palate. See under Palate.
Velum  See Veil, n., 3 (b).
Velum  A thin membrane surrounding the sporocarps of quillworts Isoetes).
Velum  A veil-like organ or part.
Velum  The circular membrane that partially incloses the space beneath the umbrella of hydroid medusae.
Velum  A delicate funnel-like membrane around the flagellum of certain Infusoria. See Illust. a of Protozoa.
Velure  Velvet.
Velutina  Any one of several species of marine gastropods belonging to Velutina and allied genera.
Velutinous  Having the surface covered with a fine and dense silky pubescence; velvety; as, a velutinous leaf.
Velverd  The veltfare.
Velveret  A kind of velvet having cotton back.
Velvet  A silk fabric, having a short, close nap of erect threads. Inferior qualities are made with a silk pile on a cotton or linen back.
Velvet  The soft and highly vascular deciduous skin which envelops and nourishes the antlers of deer during their rapid growth.
Velvet  Made of velvet; soft and delicate, like velvet; velvety.
Velvet  To pain velvet.
Velvet  To make like, or cover with, velvet.
Velvetbreast  The goosander.
Velveteen  A kind of cloth, usually cotton, made in imitation of velvet; cotton velvet.
Velveting  The fine shag or nap of velvet; a piece of velvet; velvet goods.
Velvetleaf  A name given to several plants which have soft, velvety leaves, as the Abutilon Avicennae, the Cissampelos Pareira, and the Lavatera arborea, and even the common mullein.
Velvety  Made of velvet, or like velvet; soft; smooth; delicate.
Venae  of Vena
Vena  A vein.
Venae  of Vena
VenAe  of Vena
Venada  The pudu.
Venal  Of or pertaining to veins; venous; as, venal blood.
Venal  Capable of being bought or obtained for money or other valuable consideration; made matter of trade or barter; held for sale; salable; mercenary; purchasable; hireling; as, venal services.
Venality  The quality or state of being venal, or purchasable; mercenariness; prostitution of talents, offices, or services, for money or reward; as, the venality of a corrupt court; the venality of an official.
Venally  In a venal manner.
Venantes  The hunting spiders, which run after, or leap upon, their prey.
Venary  Of or, pertaining to hunting.
Venatic  Alt. of Venatical
Venatical  Of or pertaining to hunting; used in hunting.
Venatica  See Vinatico.
Venation  The arrangement or system of veins, as in the wing of an insect, or in the leaves of a plant. See Illust. in Appendix.
Venation  The act or art of hunting, or the state of being hunted.
Venatorial  Or or pertaining to hunting; venatic.
Vended  of Vend
Vending  of Vend
Vend  To transfer to another person for a pecuniary equivalent; to make an object of trade; to dispose of by sale; to sell; as, to vend goods; to vend vegetables.
Vend  The act of vending or selling; a sale.
Vend  The total sales of coal from a colliery.
Vendace  A European lake whitefish (Coregonus Willughbii, or C. Vandesius) native of certain lakes in Scotland and England. It is regarded as a delicate food fish. Called also vendis.
Vendee  The person to whom a thing is vended, or sold; -- the correlative of vendor.
Vendemiaire  The first month of the French republican calendar, dating from September 22, 1792.
Vender  One who vends; one who transfers the exclusive right of possessing a thing, either his own, or that of another as his agent, for a price or pecuniary equivalent; a seller; a vendor.
Vendetta  A blood feud; private revenge for the murder of a kinsman.
Vendibility  The quality or state of being vendible, or salable.
Vendible  Capable of being vended, or sold; that may be sold; salable.
Vendible  Something to be sold, or offered for sale.
Venditate  To cry up. as if for sale; to blazon.
Venditation  The act of setting forth ostentatiously; a boastful display.
Vendition  The act of vending, or selling; sale.
Vendor  A vender; a seller; the correlative of vendee.
Vends  See Wends.
Vendue  A public sale of anything, by outcry, to the highest bidder; an auction.
Veneered  of Veneer
Veneering  of Veneer
Veneer  To overlay or plate with a thin layer of wood or other material for outer finish or decoration; as, to veneer a piece of furniture with mahogany. Used also figuratively.
Veneer  A thin leaf or layer of a more valuable or beautiful material for overlaying an inferior one, especially such a thin leaf of wood to be glued to a cheaper wood; hence, external show; gloss; false pretense.
Veneering  The act or art of one who veneers.
Veneering  Thin wood or other material used as a veneer.
Venefical  Veneficial.
Venefice  The act or practice of poisoning.
Veneficial  Alt. of Veneficious
Veneficious  Acting by poison; used in poisoning or in sorcery.
Venemous  Venomous.
Venenate  To poison; to infect with poison.
Venenate  Poisoned.
Vennation  The act of poisoning.
Vennation  Poison; venom.
Venene  Poisonous; venomous.
Venenose  Poisonous.
Venerability  The quality or state of being venerable; venerableness.
Venerable  Capable of being venerated; worthy of veneration or reverence; deserving of honor and respect; -- generally implying an advanced age; as, a venerable magistrate; a venerable parent.
Venerable  Rendered sacred by religious or other associations; that should be regarded with awe and treated with reverence; as, the venerable walls of a temple or a church.
Veneracea  An extensive tribe of bivalve mollusks of which the genus Venus is the type. The shells are usually oval, or somewhat heartshaped, with a conspicuous lunule. See Venus.
Venerated  of Venerate
Venerating  of Venerate
Venerate  To regard with reverential respect; to honor with mingled respect and awe; to reverence; to revere; as, we venerate parents and elders.
Veneration  The act of venerating, or the state of being venerated; the highest degree of respect and reverence; respect mingled with awe; a feeling or sentimental excited by the dignity, wisdom, or superiority of a person, by sacredness of character, by consecration to sacred services, or by hallowed associations.
Venerator  One who venerates.
Venereal  Of or pertaining to venery, or sexual love; relating to sexual intercourse.
Venereal  Arising from sexual intercourse; as, a venereal disease; venereal virus or poison.
Venereal  Adapted to the cure of venereal diseases; as, venereal medicines.
Venereal  Adapted to excite venereal desire; aphrodisiac.
Venereal  Consisting of, or pertaining to, copper, formerly called by chemists Venus.
Venereal  The venereal disease; syphilis.
Venerean  Devoted to the offices of Venus, or love; venereal.
Venereous  Venereal; exciting lust; aphrodisiac.
Venereous  Lustful; lascivious; libidinous.
Venerous  Venereous.
Venery  Sexual love; sexual intercourse; coition.
Venery  The art, act, or practice of hunting; the sports of the chase.
Venesection  The act or operation of opening a vein for letting blood; bloodletting; phlebotomy.
Venetian  Of or pertaining to Venice in Italy.
Venetian  A native or inhabitant of Venice.
Venew  A bout, or turn, as at fencing; a thrust; a hit; a veney.
Veney  A bout; a thrust; a venew.
Venge  To avenge; to punish; to revenge.
Vengeable  Revengeful; deserving revenge.
Vengeance  Punishment inflicted in return for an injury or an offense; retribution; -- often, in a bad sense, passionate or unrestrained revenge.
Vengeance  Harm; mischief.
Vengeancely  Extremely; excessively.
Vengeful  Vindictive; retributive; revengeful.
Vengement  Avengement; penal retribution; vengeance.
Venger  An avenger.
Veniable  Venial; pardonable.
Venial  Capable of being forgiven; not heinous; excusable; pardonable; as, a venial fault or transgression.
Venial  Allowed; permitted.
Veniality  The quality or state of being venial; venialness.
Venire  A judicial writ or precept directed to the sheriff, requiring him to cause a certain number of qualified persons to appear in court at a specified time, to serve as jurors in said court.
Venire  A writ in the nature of a summons to cause the party indicted on a penal statute to appear. Called also venire.
Venison  Beasts of the chase.
Venison  Formerly, the flesh of any of the edible beasts of the chase, also of game birds; now, the flesh of animals of the deer kind exclusively.
Venite  The 95th Psalm, which is said or sung regularly in the public worship of many churches. Also, a musical composition adapted to this Psalm.
Venom  Matter fatal or injurious to life; poison; particularly, the poisonous, the poisonous matter which certain animals, such as serpents, scorpions, bees, etc., secrete in a state of health, and communicate by thing or stinging.
Venom  Spite; malice; malignity; evil quality. Chaucer.
Venom  To infect with venom; to envenom; to poison.
Venomous  Full of venom; noxious to animal life; poisonous; as, the bite of a serpent may be venomous.
Venomous  Having a poison gland or glands for the secretion of venom, as certain serpents and insects.
Venomous  Noxious; mischievous; malignant; spiteful; as, a venomous progeny; a venomous writer.
Venose  Having numerous or conspicuous veins; veiny; as, a venose frond.
Venosity  The quality or state of being venous.
Venosity  A condition in which the circulation is retarded, and the entire mass of blood is less oxygenated than it normally is.
Venous  Of or pertaining to a vein or veins; as, the venous circulation of the blood.
Venous  Contained in the veins, or having the same qualities as if contained in the veins, that is, having a dark bluish color and containing an insufficient amount of oxygen so as no longer to be fit for oxygenating the tissues; -- said of the blood, and opposed to arterial.
Venous  Marked with veins; veined; as, a venous leaf.
Vent  Sale; opportunity to sell; market.
Vent  To sell; to vend.
Vent  A baiting place; an inn.
Vent  To snuff; to breathe or puff out; to snort.
Vent  A small aperture; a hole or passage for air or any fluid to escape; as, the vent of a cask; the vent of a mold; a volcanic vent.
Vent  The anal opening of certain invertebrates and fishes; also, the external cloacal opening of reptiles, birds, amphibians, and many fishes.
Vent  The opening at the breech of a firearm, through which fire is communicated to the powder of the charge; touchhole.
Vent  Sectional area of the passage for gases divided by the length of the same passage in feet.
Vent  Fig.: Opportunity of escape or passage from confinement or privacy; outlet.
Vent  Emission; escape; passage to notice or expression; publication; utterance.
Vented  of Vent
Venting  of Vent
Vent  To let out at a vent, or small aperture; to give passage or outlet to.
Vent  To suffer to escape from confinement; to let out; to utter; to pour forth; as, to vent passion or complaint.
Vent  To utter; to report; to publish.
Vent  To scent, as a hound.
Vent  To furnish with a vent; to make a vent in; as, to vent. a mold.
Ventage  A small hole, as the stop in a flute; a vent.
Ventail  That part of a helmet which is intended for the admission of air, -- sometimes in the visor.
Venter  One who vents; one who utters, reports, or publishes.
Venter  The belly; the abdomen; -- sometimes applied to any large cavity containing viscera.
Venter  The uterus, or womb.
Venter  A belly, or protuberant part; a broad surface; as, the venter of a muscle; the venter, or anterior surface, of the scapula.
Venter  The lower part of the abdomen in insects.
Venter  A pregnant woman; a mother; as, A has a son B by one venter, and a daughter C by another venter; children by different venters.
Venthole  A touchhole; a vent.
Ventiduct  A passage for wind or air; a passage or pipe for ventilating apartments.
Ventilated  of Ventilate
Ventilating  of Ventilate
Ventilate  To open and expose to the free passage of air; to supply with fresh air, and remove impure air from; to air; as, to ventilate a room; to ventilate a cellar; to ventilate a mine.
Ventilate  To provide with a vent, or escape, for air, gas, etc.; as, to ventilate a mold, or a water-wheel bucket.
Ventilate  To change or renew, as the air of a room.
Ventilate  To winnow; to fan; as, to ventilate wheat.
Ventilate  To sift and examine; to bring out, and subject to penetrating scrutiny; to expose to examination and discussion; as, to ventilate questions of policy.
Ventilate  To give vent; to utter; to make public.
Ventilation  The act of ventilating, or the state of being ventilated; the art or process of replacing foul air by that which is pure, in any inclosed place, as a house, a church, a mine, etc.; free exposure to air.
Ventilation  The act of refrigerating, or cooling; refrigeration; as, ventilation of the blood.
Ventilation  The act of fanning, or winnowing, for the purpose of separating chaff and dust from the grain.
Ventilation  The act of sifting, and bringing out to view or examination; free discussion; public exposure.
Ventilation  The act of giving vent or expression.
Ventilative  Of or pertaining to ventilation; adapted to secure ventilation; ventilating; as, ventilative apparatus.
Ventilator  A contrivance for effecting ventilation; especially, a contrivance or machine for drawing off or expelling foul or stagnant air from any place or apartment, or for introducing that which is fresh and pure.
Ventose  A ventouse.
Ventose  Windy; flatulent.
Ventose  The sixth month of the calendar adopted by the first French republic. It began February 19, and ended March 20. See Vend/miaire.
Ventosity  Quality or state of being ventose; windiness; hence, vainglory; pride.
Ventouse  A cupping glass.
Ventouse  To cup; to use a cupping glass.
Ventrad  Toward the ventral side; on the ventral side; ventrally; -- opposed to dorsad.
Ventral  Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the belly, or ventral side, of an animal or of one of its parts; hemal; abdominal; as, the ventral fin of a fish; the ventral root of a spinal nerve; -- opposed to dorsal.
Ventral  Of or pertaining to that surface of a carpel, petal, etc., which faces toward the center of a flower.
Ventral  Of or pertaining to the lower side or surface of a creeping moss or other low flowerless plant. Opposed to dorsal.
Ventricle  A cavity, or one of the cavities, of an organ, as of the larynx or the brain; specifically, the posterior chamber, or one of the two posterior chambers, of the heart, which receives the blood from the auricle and forces it out from the heart. See Heart.
Ventricle  The stomach.
Ventricle  Fig.: Any cavity, or hollow place, in which any function may be conceived of as operating.
Ventricose  Alt. of Ventricous
Ventricous  Swelling out on one side or unequally; bellied; ventricular; as, a ventricose corolla.
Ventricular  Of or pertaining to a ventricle; bellied.
Ventriculite  Any one of numerous species of siliceous fossil sponges belonging to Ventriculites and allied genera, characteristic of the Cretaceous period.
Ventriculous  Somewhat distended in the middle; ventricular.
Ventriculi  of Ventriculus
Ventriculus  One of the stomachs of certain insects.
Ventriculus  The body cavity of a sponge.
Ventrilocution  Ventriloquism.
Ventriloquial  Ventriloquous.
Ventriloquism  The act, art, or practice of speaking in such a manner that the voice appears to come, not from the person speaking, but from some other source, as from the opposite side of the room, from the cellar, etc.
Ventriloquist  One who practices, or is skilled in, ventriloquism.
Ventriloquized  of Ventriloquize
Ventriloquizing  of Ventriloquize
Ventriloquize  To practice ventriloquism; to speak like a ventriloquist.
Ventriloquous  Of or pertaining to a ventriloquist or ventriloquism.
Ventriloquy  Same as Ventriloquism.
Ventrimeson  See Meson.
Ventro-  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the abdomen; also, connection with, relation to, or direction toward, the ventral side; as, ventrolateral; ventro-inguinal.
Ventro-inguinal  Pertaining both to the abdomen and groin, or to the abdomen and inguinal canal; as, ventro-inguinal hernia.
Venture  An undertaking of chance or danger; the risking of something upon an event which can not be foreseen with certainty; a hazard; a risk; a speculation.
Was  of Be
Went  of Go
women  of Herdswoman
Waag  The grivet.
Waahoo  The burning bush; -- said to be called after a quack medicine made from it.
Wabble  To move staggeringly or unsteadily from one side to the other; to vacillate; to move the manner of a rotating disk when the axis of rotation is inclined to that of the disk; -- said of a turning or whirling body; as, a top wabbles; a buzz saw wabbles.
Wabble  A hobbling, unequal motion, as of a wheel unevenly hung; a staggering to and fro.
Wabbly  Inclined to wabble; wabbling.
Wacke  Alt. of Wacky
Wacky  A soft, earthy, dark-colored rock or clay derived from the alteration of basalt.
Wad  Woad.
Wad  A little mass, tuft, or bundle, as of hay or tow.
Wad  Specifically: A little mass of some soft or flexible material, such as hay, straw, tow, paper, or old rope yarn, used for retaining a charge of powder in a gun, or for keeping the powder and shot close; also, to diminish or avoid the effects of windage. Also, by extension, a dusk of felt, pasteboard, etc., serving a similar purpose.
Wad  A soft mass, especially of some loose, fibrous substance, used for various purposes, as for stopping an aperture, padding a garment, etc.
Waded  of Wad
Wadding  of Wad
Wad  To form into a mass, or wad, or into wadding; as, to wad tow or cotton.
Wad  To insert or crowd a wad into; as, to wad a gun; also, to stuff or line with some soft substance, or wadding, like cotton; as, to wad a cloak.
Wad  Alt. of Wadd
Wadd  An earthy oxide of manganese, or mixture of different oxides and water, with some oxide of iron, and often silica, alumina, lime, or baryta; black ocher. There are several varieties.
Wadd  Plumbago, or black lead.
Wadding  A wad, or the materials for wads; any pliable substance of which wads may be made.
Wadding  Any soft stuff of loose texture, used for stuffing or padding garments; esp., sheets of carded cotton prepared for the purpose.
Waddled  of Waddle
Waddling  of Waddle
Waddle  To walk with short steps, swaying the body from one side to the other, like a duck or very fat person; to move clumsily and totteringly along; to toddle; to stumble; as, a child waddles when he begins to walk; a goose waddles.
Waddle  To trample or tread down, as high grass, by walking through it.
Waddler  One who, or that which, waddles.
Waddlingly  In a waddling manner.
Wade  Woad.
Waded  of Wade
Wading  of Wade
Wade  To go; to move forward.
Wade  To walk in a substance that yields to the feet; to move, sinking at each step, as in water, mud, sand, etc.
Wade  Hence, to move with difficulty or labor; to proceed /lowly among objects or circumstances that constantly /inder or embarrass; as, to wade through a dull book.
Wade  To pass or cross by wading; as, he waded /he rivers and swamps.
Wade  The act of wading.
Wader  One who, or that which, wades.
Wader  Any long-legged bird that wades in the water in search of food, especially any species of limicoline or grallatorial birds; -- called also wading bird. See Illust. g, under Aves.
Wading  a. & n. from Wade, v.
Wadmol  A coarse, hairy, woolen cloth, formerly used for garments by the poor, and for various other purposes.
Wadset  A kind of pledge or mortgage.
Wadsetter  One who holds by a wadset.
Wadies  of Wady
Wady  A ravine through which a brook flows; the channel of a water course, which is dry except in the rainy season.
Wae  A wave.
Waeg  The kittiwake.
Wafer  A thin cake made of flour and other ingredients.
Wafer  A thin cake or piece of bread (commonly unleavened, circular, and stamped with a crucifix or with the sacred monogram) used in the Eucharist, as in the Roman Catholic Church.
Wafer  An adhesive disk of dried paste, made of flour, gelatin, isinglass, or the like, and coloring matter, -- used in sealing letters and other documents.
Wafered  of Wafer
Wafering  of Wafer
Wafer  To seal or close with a wafer.
Waferer  A dealer in the cakes called wafers; a confectioner.
Waffle  A thin cake baked and then rolled; a wafer.
Waffle  A soft indented cake cooked in a waffle iron.
Wafted  of Waft
Wafting  of Waft
Waft  To give notice to by waving something; to wave the hand to; to beckon.
Waft  To cause to move or go in a wavy manner, or by the impulse of waves, as of water or air; to bear along on a buoyant medium; as, a balloon was wafted over the channel.
Waft  To cause to float; to keep from sinking; to buoy.
Waft  To be moved, or to pass, on a buoyant medium; to float.
Waft  A wave or current of wind.
Waft  A signal made by waving something, as a flag, in the air.
Waft  An unpleasant flavor.
Waft  A knot, or stop, in the middle of a flag.
Waftage  Conveyance on a buoyant medium, as air or water.
Wafter  One who, or that which, wafts.
Wafter  A boat for passage.
Wafture  The act of waving; a wavelike motion; a waft.
Wagged  of Wag
Wagging  of Wag
Wag  To move one way and the other with quick turns; to shake to and fro; to move vibratingly; to cause to vibrate, as a part of the body; as, to wag the head.
Wag  To move one way and the other; to be shaken to and fro; to vibrate.
Wag  To be in action or motion; to move; to get along; to progress; to stir.
Wag  To go; to depart; to pack oft.
Wag  The act of wagging; a shake; as, a wag of the head.
Wag  A man full of sport and humor; a ludicrous fellow; a humorist; a wit; a joker.
Wagati  A small East Indian wild cat (Felis wagati), regarded by some as a variety of the leopard cat.
Waged  of Wage
Waging  of Wage
Wage  To pledge; to hazard on the event of a contest; to stake; to bet, to lay; to wager; as, to wage a dollar.
Wage  To expose one's self to, as a risk; to incur, as a danger; to venture; to hazard.
Wage  To engage in, as a contest, as if by previous gage or pledge; to carry on, as a war.
Wage  To adventure, or lay out, for hire or reward; to hire out.
Wage  To put upon wages; to hire; to employ; to pay wages to.
Wage  To give security for the performance of.
Wage  To bind one's self; to engage.
Wage  That which is staked or ventured; that for which one incurs risk or danger; prize; gage.
Wage  That for which one labors; meed; reward; stipulated payment for service performed; hire; pay; compensation; -- at present generally used in the plural. See Wages.
Wagel  See Waggel.
Wagenboom  A south African proteaceous tree (Protea grandiflora); also, its tough wood, used for making wagon wheels.
Wager  Something deposited, laid, or hazarded on the event of a contest or an unsettled question; a bet; a stake; a pledge.
Wager  A contract by which two parties or more agree that a certain sum of money, or other thing, shall be paid or delivered to one of them, on the happening or not happening of an uncertain event.
Wager  That on which bets are laid; the subject of a bet.
Wagered  of Wager
Wagering  of Wager
Wager  To hazard on the issue of a contest, or on some question that is to be decided, or on some casualty; to lay; to stake; to bet.
Wager  To make a bet; to lay a wager.
Wagerer  One who wagers, or lays a bet.
Wagering  Hazarding; pertaining to the act of one who wagers.
Wages  A compensation given to a hired person for services; price paid for labor; recompense; hire. See Wage, n., 2.
Waggel  The young of the great black-backed gull (Larus marinus), formerly considered a distinct species.
Waggeries  of Waggery
Waggery  The manner or action of a wag; mischievous merriment; sportive trick or gayety; good-humored sarcasm; pleasantry; jocularity; as, the waggery of a schoolboy.
Waggie  The pied wagtail.
Waggish  Like a wag; mischievous in sport; roguish in merriment or good humor; frolicsome.
Waggish  Done, made, or laid in waggery or for sport; sportive; humorous; as, a waggish trick.
Waggle  To reel, sway, or move from side to side; to move with a wagging motion; to waddle.
Waggled  of Waggle
Waggling  of Waggle
Waggle  To move frequently one way and the other; to wag; as, a bird waggles his tail.
Wag-halter  One who moves or wears a halter; one likely to be hanged.
Wagnerite  A fluophosphate of magnesia, occurring in yellowish crystals, and also in massive forms.
Wagon  A wheeled carriage; a vehicle on four wheels, and usually drawn by horses; especially, one used for carrying freight or merchandise.
Wagon  A freight car on a railway.
Wagon  A chariot
Wagon  The Dipper, or Charles's Wain.
Wagoned  of Wagon
Wagoning  of Wagon
Wagon  To transport in a wagon or wagons; as, goods are wagoned from city to city.
Wagon  To wagon goods as a business; as, the man wagons between Philadelphia and its suburbs.
Wagonage  Money paid for carriage or conveyance in wagon.
Wagonage  A collection of wagons; wagons, collectively.
Wagoner  One who conducts a wagon; one whose business it is to drive a wagon.
Wagoner  The constellation Charles's Wain, or Ursa Major. See Ursa major, under Ursa.
Wagonette  A kind of pleasure wagon, uncovered and with seats extended along the sides, designed to carry six or eight persons besides the driver.
Wagonfuls  of Wagonful
Wagonful  As much as a wagon will hold; enough to fill a wagon; a wagonload.
Wagon-headed  Having a top, or head, shaped like the top of a covered wagon, or resembling in section or outline an inverted U, thus /; as, a wagonheaded ceiling.
Wagonload  Same as Wagonful.
Wagon-roofed  Having a roof, or top, shaped like an inverted U; wagon-headed.
Wagonry  Conveyance by means of a wagon or wagons.
Wagonwright  One who makes wagons.
Wagtail  Any one of many species of Old World singing birds belonging to Motacilla and several allied genera of the family Motacillidae. They have the habit of constantly jerking their long tails up and down, whence the name.
Wah  The panda.
Wahabee  A follower of Abdel Wahab (b. 1691; d. 1787), a reformer of Mohammedanism. His doctrines prevail particularly among the Bedouins, and the sect, though checked in its influence, extends to most parts of Arabia, and also into India.
Waid  Oppressed with weight; crushed; weighed down.
Waif  Goods found of which the owner is not known; originally, such goods as a pursued thief threw away to prevent being apprehended, which belonged to the king unless the owner made pursuit of the felon, took him, and brought him to justice.
Waif  Hence, anything found, or without an owner; that which comes along, as it were, by chance.
Waif  A wanderer; a castaway; a stray; a homeless child.
Waift  A waif.
Wail  To choose; to select.
Wailed  of Wail
Wailing  of Wail
Wail  To lament; to bewail; to grieve over; as, to wail one's death.
Wail  To express sorrow audibly; to make mournful outcry; to weep.
Wail  Loud weeping; violent lamentation; wailing.
Wailer  One who wails or laments.
Waileress  A woman who wails.
Wailful  Sorrowful; mournful.
Wailingly  In a wailing manner.
Wailment  Lamentation; loud weeping; wailing.
Waiment  See Wayment.
Wain  A four-wheeled vehicle for the transportation of goods, produce, etc.; a wagon.
Wain  A chariot.
Wainable  Capable of being plowed or cultivated; arable; tillable.
Wainage  A finding of carriages, carts, etc., for the transportation of goods, produce, etc.
Wainage  See Gainage, a.
Wainbote  See Cartbote. See also the Note under Bote.
Wainscot  Oaken timber or boarding.
Wainscot  A wooden lining or boarding of the walls of apartments, usually made in panels.
Wainscot  Any one of numerous species of European moths of the family Leucanidae.
Wainscoted  of Wainscot
Wainscoting  of Wainscot
Wainscot  To line with boards or panelwork, or as if with panelwork; as, to wainscot a hall.
Wainscoting  The act or occupation of covering or lining with boards in panel.
Wainscoting  The material used to wainscot a house, or the wainscot as a whole; panelwork.
Wainwright  Same as Wagonwright.
Wair  A piece of plank two yard/ long and a foot broad.
Waist  That part of the human body which is immediately below the ribs or thorax; the small part of the body between the thorax and hips.
Waist  Hence, the middle part of other bodies; especially (Naut.), that part of a vessel's deck, bulwarks, etc., which is between the quarter-deck and the forecastle; the middle part of the ship.
Waist  A garment, or part of a garment, which covers the body from the neck or shoulders to the waist line.
Waist  A girdle or belt for the waist.
Waistband  The band which encompasses the waist; esp., one on the upper part of breeches, trousers, pantaloons, skirts, or the like.
Waistband  A sash worn by women around the waist.
Waistcloth  A cloth or wrapper worn about the waist; by extension, such a garment worn about the hips and passing between the thighs.
Waistcloth  A covering of canvas or tarpaulin for the hammocks, stowed on the nettings, between the quarterdeck and the forecastle.
Waistcoat  A short, sleeveless coat or garment for men, worn under the coat, extending no lower than the hips, and covering the waist; a vest.
Waistcoat  A garment occasionally worn by women as a part of fashionable costume.
Waistcoateer  One wearing a waistcoat; esp., a woman wearing one uncovered, or thought fit for such a habit; hence, a loose woman; strumpet.
Waistcoating  A fabric designed for waistcoats; esp., one in which there is a pattern, differently colored yarns being used.
Waister  A seaman, usually a green hand or a broken-down man, stationed in the waist of a vessel of war.
Waited  of Wait
Waiting  of Wait
Wait  To watch; to observe; to take notice.
Wait  To stay or rest in expectation; to stop or remain stationary till the arrival of some person or event; to rest in patience; to stay; not to depart.
Wait  To stay for; to rest or remain stationary in expectation of; to await; as, to wait orders.
Wait  To attend as a consequence; to follow upon; to accompany; to await.
Wait  To attend on; to accompany; especially, to attend with ceremony or respect.
Wait  To cause to wait; to defer; to postpone; -- said of a meal; as, to wait dinner.
Wait  The act of waiting; a delay; a halt.
Wait  Ambush.
Wait  One who watches; a watchman.
Wait  Hautboys, or oboes, played by town musicians; not used in the singular.
Wait  Musicians who sing or play at night or in the early morning, especially at Christmas time; serenaders; musical watchmen.
Waiter  One who, or that which, waits; an attendant; a servant in attendance, esp. at table.
Waiter  A vessel or tray on which something is carried, as dishes, etc.; a salver.
Waiting  a. & n. from Wait, v.
Waitingly  By waiting.
Waitress  A female waiter or attendant; a waiting maid or waiting woman.
Waive  A waif; a castaway.
Waive  A woman put out of the protection of the law. See Waive, v. t., 3 (b), and the Note.
Waived  of Waive
Waiving  of Waive
Waive  To relinquish; to give up claim to; not to insist on or claim; to refuse; to forego.
Waive  To throw away; to cast off; to reject; to desert.
Waive  To throw away; to relinquish voluntarily, as a right which one may enforce if he chooses.
Waive  To desert; to abandon.
Waive  To turn aside; to recede.
Waiver  The act of waiving, or not insisting on, some right, claim, or privilege.
Waivure  See Waiver.
Waiwode  See Waywode.
Wake  The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, any track; as, the wake of an army.
Waked  of Wake
Woke  of Wake
Waking  of Wake
Wake  To be or to continue awake; to watch; not to sleep.
Wake  To sit up late festive purposes; to hold a night revel.
Wake  To be excited or roused from sleep; to awake; to be awakened; to cease to sleep; -- often with up.
Wake  To be exited or roused up; to be stirred up from a dormant, torpid, or inactive state; to be active.
Wake  To rouse from sleep; to awake.
Wake  To put in motion or action; to arouse; to excite.
Wake  To bring to life again, as if from the sleep of death; to reanimate; to revive.
Wake  To watch, or sit up with, at night, as a dead body.
Wake  The act of waking, or being awaked; also, the state of being awake.
Wake  The state of forbearing sleep, especially for solemn or festive purposes; a vigil.
Wake  An annual parish festival formerly held in commemoration of the dedication of a church. Originally, prayers were said on the evening preceding, and hymns were sung during the night, in the church; subsequently, these vigils were discontinued, and the day itself, often with succeeding days, was occupied in rural pastimes and exercises, attended by eating and drinking, often to excess.
Wake  The sitting up of persons with a dead body, often attended with a degree of festivity, chiefly among the Irish.
Wakeful  Not sleeping; indisposed to sleep; watchful; vigilant.
Wakened  of Waken
Wakening  of Waken
Waken  To wake; to cease to sleep; to be awakened.
Waken  To excite or rouse from sleep; to wake; to awake; to awaken.
Waken  To excite; to rouse; to move to action; to awaken.
Wakener  One who wakens.
Wakening  The act of one who wakens; esp., the act of ceasing to sleep; an awakening.
Wakening  The revival of an action.
Waker  One who wakes.
Wake-robin  Any plant of the genus Arum, especially, in England, the cuckoopint (Arum maculatum).
Waketime  Time during which one is awake.
Waking  The act of waking, or the state or period of being awake.
Waking  A watch; a watching.
Walaway  See Welaway.
Wald  A forest; -- used as a termination of names. See Weald.
Waldenses  A sect of dissenters from the ecclesiastical system of the Roman Catholic Church, who in the 13th century were driven by persecution to the valleys of Piedmont, where the sect survives. They profess substantially Protestant principles.
Waldensian  Of or pertaining to the Waldenses.
Waldensian  One Holding the Waldensian doctrines.
Waldgrave  In the old German empire, the head forest keeper.
Waldheimia  A genus of brachiopods of which many species are found in the fossil state. A few still exist in the deep sea.
Wale  A streak or mark made on the skin by a rod or whip; a stripe; a wheal. See Wheal.
Wale  A ridge or streak rising above the surface, as of cloth; hence, the texture of cloth.
Wale  A timber bolted to a row of piles to secure them together and in position.
Wale  Certain sets or strakes of the outside planking of a vessel; as, the main wales, or the strakes of planking under the port sills of the gun deck; channel wales, or those along the spar deck, etc.
Wale  A wale knot, or wall knot.
Wale  To mark with wales, or stripes.
Wale  To choose; to select; specifically (Mining), to pick out the refuse of (coal) by hand, in order to clean it.
Walhalla  See Valhalla.
Waling  Same as Wale, n., 4.
Walked  of Walk
Walking  of Walk
Walk  To move along on foot; to advance by steps; to go on at a moderate pace; specifically, of two-legged creatures, to proceed at a slower or faster rate, but without running, or lifting one foot entirely before the other touches the ground.
Walk  To move or go on the feet for exercise or amusement; to take one's exercise; to ramble.
Walk  To be stirring; to be abroad; to go restlessly about; -- said of things or persons expected to remain quiet, as a sleeping person, or the spirit of a dead person; to go about as a somnambulist or a specter.
Walk  To be in motion; to act; to move; to wag.
Walk  To behave; to pursue a course of life; to conduct one's self.
Walk  To move off; to depart.
Walk  To pass through, over, or upon; to traverse; to perambulate; as, to walk the streets.
Walk  To cause to walk; to lead, drive, or ride with a slow pace; as to walk one's horses.
Walk  To subject, as cloth or yarn, to the fulling process; to full.
Walk  The act of walking, or moving on the feet with a slow pace; advance without running or leaping.
Walk  The act of walking for recreation or exercise; as, a morning walk; an evening walk.
Walk  Manner of walking; gait; step; as, we often know a person at a distance by his walk.
Walk  That in or through which one walks; place or distance walked over; a place for walking; a path or avenue prepared for foot passengers, or for taking air and exercise; way; road; hence, a place or region in which animals may graze; place of wandering; range; as, a sheep walk.
Walk  A frequented track; habitual place of action; sphere; as, the walk of the historian.
Walk  Conduct; course of action; behavior.
Walk  The route or district regularly served by a vender; as, a milkman's walk.
Walkable  Fit to be walked on; capable of being walked on or over.
Walker  One who walks; a pedestrian.
Walker  That with which one walks; a foot.
Walker  A forest officer appointed to walk over a certain space for inspection; a forester.
Walker  A fuller of cloth.
Walker  Any ambulatorial orthopterous insect, as a stick insect.
Walking  a. & n. from Walk, v.
Walk-mill  A fulling mill.
Walk-over  In racing, the going over a course by a horse which has no competitor for the prize; hence, colloquially, a one-sided contest; an uncontested, or an easy, victory.
Walkyr  See Valkyria.
Wall  A kind of knot often used at the end of a rope; a wall knot; a wale.
Wall  A work or structure of stone, brick, or other materials, raised to some height, and intended for defense or security, solid and permanent inclosing fence, as around a field, a park, a town, etc., also, one of the upright inclosing parts of a building or a room.
Wall  A defense; a rampart; a means of protection; in the plural, fortifications, in general; works for defense.
Wall  An inclosing part of a receptacle or vessel; as, the walls of a steam-engine cylinder.
Wall  The side of a level or drift.
Wall  The country rock bounding a vein laterally.
Walled  of Wall
Walling  of Wall
Wall  To inclose with a wall, or as with a wall.
Wall  To defend by walls, or as if by walls; to fortify.
Wall  To close or fill with a wall, as a doorway.
Wallaba  A leguminous tree (Eperua falcata) of Demerara, with pinnate leaves and clusters of red flowers. The reddish brown wood is used for palings and shingles.
Wallabies  of Wallaby
Wallaby  Any one of numerous species of kangaroos belonging to the genus Halmaturus, native of Australia and Tasmania, especially the smaller species, as the brush kangaroo (H. Bennettii) and the pademelon (H. thetidis). The wallabies chiefly inhabit the wooded district and bushy plains.
Wallah  A black variety of the jaguar; -- called also tapir tiger.
Wallaroo  Any one of several species of kangaroos of the genus Macropus, especially M. robustus, sometimes called the great wallaroo.
Wallbird  The spotted flycatcher.
Waller  One who builds walls.
Waller  The wels.
Wallerian  A form of degeneration occurring in nerve fibers as a result of their division; -- so called from Dr. Waller, who published an account of it in 1850.
Wallet  A bag or sack for carrying about the person, as a bag for carrying the necessaries for a journey; a knapsack; a beggar's receptacle for charity; a peddler's pack.
Wallet  A pocketbook for keeping money about the person.
Wallet  Anything protuberant and swagging.
Walleteer  One who carries a wallet; a foot traveler; a tramping beggar.
Wall-eye  An eye in which the iris is of a very light gray or whitish color; -- said usually of horses.
Wall-eye  An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion vitreum) having large and prominent eyes; -- called also glasseye, pike perch, yellow pike, and wall-eyed perch.
Wall-eye  A California surf fish (Holconotus argenteus).
Wall-eye  The alewife; -- called also wall-eyed herring.
Wall-eyed  Having an eye of a very light gray or whitish color.
Wallflower  A perennial, cruciferous plant (Cheiranthus Cheiri), with sweet-scented flowers varying in color from yellow to orange and deep red. In Europe it very common on old walls.
Wallflower  A lady at a ball, who, either from choice, or because not asked to dance, remains a spectator.
Wallhick  The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dryobates minor).
Walling  The act of making a wall or walls.
Walling  Walls, in general; material for walls.
Walloons  A Romanic people inhabiting that part of Belgium which comprises the provinces of Hainaut, Namur, Liege, and Luxembourg, and about one third of Brabant; also, the language spoken by this people. Used also adjectively.
Wallop  To move quickly, but with great effort; to gallop.
Wallop  A quick, rolling movement; a gallop.
Walloped  of Wallop
Walloping  of Wallop
Wallop  To boil with a continued bubbling or heaving and rolling, with noise.
Wallop  To move in a rolling, cumbersome manner; to waddle.
Wallop  To be slatternly.
Wallop  To beat soundly; to flog; to whip.
Wallop  To wrap up temporarily.
Wallop  To throw or tumble over.
Wallop  A thick piece of fat.
Wallop  A blow.
Wallowed  of Wallow
Wallowing  of Wallow
Wallow  To roll one's self about, as in mire; to tumble and roll about; to move lazily or heavily in any medium; to flounder; as, swine wallow in the mire.
Wallow  To live in filth or gross vice; to disport one's self in a beastly and unworthy manner.
Wallow  To wither; to fade.
Wallow  To roll; esp., to roll in anything defiling or unclean.
Wallow  A kind of rolling walk.
Wallower  One who, or that which, wallows.
Wallower  A lantern wheel; a trundle.
Wallowish  Flat; insipid.
Wall-plat  The spotted flycatcher. It builds its nest on walls.
Wall-sided  Having sides nearly perpendicular; -- said of certain vessels to distinguish them from those having flaring sides, or sides tumbling home (see under Tumble, v. i.).
Wallwort  The dwarf elder, or danewort (Sambucus Ebulus).
Walm  To roll; to spout; to boil up.
Walnut  The fruit or nut of any tree of the genus Juglans; also, the tree, and its timber. The seven or eight known species are all natives of the north temperate zone.
Walrus  A very large marine mammal (Trichecus rosmarus) of the Seal family, native of the Arctic Ocean. The male has long and powerful tusks descending from the upper jaw. It uses these in procuring food and in fighting. It is hunted for its oil, ivory, and skin. It feeds largely on mollusks. Called also morse.
Walter  To roll or wallow; to welter.
Waltron  A walrus.
Walty  Liable to roll over; crank; as, a walty ship.
Waltz  A dance performed by two persons in circular figures with a whirling motion; also, a piece of music composed in triple measure for this kind of dance.
Waltzed  of Waltz
Waltzing  of Waltz
Waltz  To dance a waltz.
Waltzer  A person who waltzes.
Walwe  To wallow.
Waly  An exclamation of grief.
Wamble  To heave; to be disturbed by nausea; -- said of the stomach.
Wamble  To move irregularly to and fro; to roll.
Wamble  Disturbance of the stomach; a feeling of nausea.
Wamble-cropped  Sick at the stomach; also, crestfallen; dejected.
Wammel  To move irregularly or awkwardly; to wamble, or wabble.
Wamp  The common American eider.
Wampee  A tree (Cookia punctata) of the Orange family, growing in China and the East Indies; also, its fruit, which is about the size of a large grape, and has a hard rind and a peculiar flavor.
Wampee  The pickerel weed.
Wampum  Beads made of shells, used by the North American Indians as money, and also wrought into belts, etc., as an ornament.
Wan  Won.
Wan  Having a pale or sickly hue; languid of look; pale; pallid.
Wan  The quality of being wan; wanness.
Wan  To grow wan; to become pale or sickly in looks.
Wand  A small stick; a rod; a verge.
Wand  A staff of authority.
Wand  A rod used by conjurers, diviners, magicians, etc.
Wandered  of Wander
Wandering  of Wander
Wander  To ramble here and there without any certain course or with no definite object in view; to range about; to stroll; to rove; as, to wander over the fields.
Wander  To go away; to depart; to stray off; to deviate; to go astray; as, a writer wanders from his subject.
Wander  To be delirious; not to be under the guidance of reason; to rave; as, the mind wanders.
Wander  To travel over without a certain course; to traverse; to stroll through.
Wanderer  One who wanders; a rambler; one who roves; hence, one who deviates from duty.
Wandering  a. & n. from Wander, v.
Wanderingly  In a wandering manner.
Wanderment  The act of wandering, or roaming.
Wanderoo  A large monkey (Macacus silenus) native of Malabar. It is black, or nearly so, but has a long white or gray beard encircling the face. Called also maha, silenus, neelbhunder, lion-tailed baboon, and great wanderoo.
Wandy  Long and flexible, like a wand.
Waned  of Wane
Waning  of Wane
Wane  To be diminished; to decrease; -- contrasted with wax, and especially applied to the illuminated part of the moon.
Wane  To decline; to fail; to sink.
Wane  To cause to decrease.
Wane  The decrease of the illuminated part of the moon to the eye of a spectator.
Wane  Decline; failure; diminution; decrease; declension.
Wane  An inequality in a board.
Waney  A sharp or uneven edge on a board that is cut from a log not perfectly squared, or that is made in the process of squaring. See Wany, a.
Wang  The jaw, jawbone, or cheek bone.
Wang  A slap; a blow.
Wang  See Whang.
Wangan  A boat for conveying provisions, tools, etc.; -- so called by Maine lumbermen.
Wanger  A pillow for the cheek; a pillow.
Wanghee  The Chinese name of one or two species of bamboo, or jointed cane, of the genus Phyllostachys. The slender stems are much used for walking sticks.
Wango  A boomerang.
Wanhope  Want of hope; despair; also, faint or delusive hope; delusion. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
Wanhorn  An East Indian plant (Kaempferia Galanga) of the Ginger family. See Galanga.
Waniand  The wane of the moon.
Waning  The act or process of waning, or decreasing.
Wanion  A word of uncertain signification, used only in the phrase with a wanion, apparently equivalent to with a vengeance, with a plague, or with misfortune.
Wankle  Not to be depended on; weak; unstable.
Wanly  In a wan, or pale, manner.
Wanned  Made wan, or pale.
Wanness  The quality or state of being wan; a sallow, dead, pale color; paleness; pallor; as, the wanness of the cheeks after a fever.
Wannish  Somewhat wan; of a pale hue.
Want  The state of not having; the condition of being without anything; absence or scarcity of what is needed or desired; deficiency; lack; as, a want of power or knowledge for any purpose; want of food and clothing.
Want  Specifically, absence or lack of necessaries; destitution; poverty; penury; indigence; need.
Want  That which is needed or desired; a thing of which the loss is felt; what is not possessed, and is necessary for use or pleasure.
Want  A depression in coal strata, hollowed out before the subsequent deposition took place.
Wanted  of Want
Wanting  of Want
Want  To be without; to be destitute of, or deficient in; not to have; to lack; as, to want knowledge; to want judgment; to want learning; to want food and clothing.
Want  To have occasion for, as useful, proper, or requisite; to require; to need; as, in winter we want a fire; in summer we want cooling breezes.
Want  To feel need of; to wish or long for; to desire; to crave.
Want  To be absent; to be deficient or lacking; to fail; not to be sufficient; to fall or come short; to lack; -- often used impersonally with of; as, it wants ten minutes of four.
Want  To be in a state of destitution; to be needy; to lack.
Wa'n't  A colloquial contraction of was not.
Wantage  That which is wanting; deficiency.
Wanting  Absent; lacking; missing; also, deficient; destitute; needy; as, one of the twelve is wanting; I shall not be wanting in exertion.
Wantless  Having no want; abundant; fruitful.
Wanton  Untrained; undisciplined; unrestrained; hence, loose; free; luxuriant; roving; sportive.
Wanton  Wandering from moral rectitude; perverse; dissolute.
Wanton  Specifically: Deviating from the rules of chastity; lewd; lustful; lascivious; libidinous; lecherous.
Wanton  Reckless; heedless; as, wanton mischief.
Wanton  A roving, frolicsome thing; a trifler; -- used rarely as a term of endearment.
Wanton  One brought up without restraint; a pampered pet.
Wanton  A lewd person; a lascivious man or woman.
Wantoned  of Wanton
Wantoning  of Wanton
Wanton  To rove and ramble without restraint, rule, or limit; to revel; to play loosely; to frolic.
Wanton  To sport in lewdness; to play the wanton; to play lasciviously.
Wanton  To cause to become wanton; also, to waste in wantonness.
Wantonize  To behave wantonly; to frolic; to wanton.
Wantonly  In a wanton manner; without regularity or restraint; loosely; sportively; gayly; playfully; recklessly; lasciviously.
Wantonly  Unintentionally; accidentally.
Wantonness  The quality or state of being wanton; negligence of restraint; sportiveness; recklessness; lasciviousness.
Wantrust  Failing or diminishing trust; want of trust or confidence; distrust.
Wantwit  One destitute of wit or sense; a blockhead; a fool.
Wanty  A surcingle, or strap of leather, used for binding a load upon the back of a beast; also, a leather tie; a short wagon rope.
Wany  To wane.
Wany  Waning or diminished in some parts; not of uniform size throughout; -- said especially of sawed boards or timber when tapering or uneven, from being cut too near the outside of the log.
Wany  Spoiled by wet; -- said of timber.
Wanze  To wane; to wither.
Wap  To beat; to whap.
Wap  A blow or beating; a whap.
Wapacut  The American hawk owl. See under Hawk.
Wapatoo  The edible tuber of a species of arrowhead (Sagittaria variabilis); -- so called by the Indians of Oregon.
Waped  Cast down; crushed by misery; dejected.
Wapentake  In some northern counties of England, a division, or district, answering to the hundred in other counties. Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, and Nottinghamshire are divided into wapentakes, instead of hundreds.
Wapinschaw  An exhibition of arms. according to the rank of the individual, by all persons bearing arms; -- formerly made at certain seasons in each district.
Wapiti  The American elk (Cervus Canadensis). It is closely related to the European red deer, which it somewhat exceeds in size.
Wapp  A fair-leader.
Wapp  A rope with wall knots in it with which the shrouds are set taut.
Wappato  See Wapatoo.
Wappened  A word of doubtful meaning used once by Shakespeare.
Wapper  To cause to shake; to tremble; to move tremulously, as from weakness; to totter.
Wapper  A gudgeon.
Wappet  A small yelping cur.
Wapping  Yelping.
War  Ware; aware.
War  A contest between nations or states, carried on by force, whether for defence, for revenging insults and redressing wrongs, for the extension of commerce, for the acquisition of territory, for obtaining and establishing the superiority and dominion of one over the other, or for any other purpose; armed conflict of sovereign powers; declared and open hostilities.
War  A condition of belligerency to be maintained by physical force. In this sense, levying war against the sovereign authority is treason.
War  Instruments of war.
War  Forces; army.
War  The profession of arms; the art of war.
War  a state of opposition or contest; an act of opposition; an inimical contest, act, or action; enmity; hostility.
Warred  of War
Warring  of War
War  To make war; to invade or attack a state or nation with force of arms; to carry on hostilities; to be in a state by violence.
War  To contend; to strive violently; to fight.
War  To make war upon; to fight.
War  To carry on, as a contest; to wage.
War-beaten  Warworn.
Warble  A small, hard tumor which is produced on the back of a horse by the heat or pressure of the saddle in traveling.
Warble  A small tumor produced by the larvae of the gadfly in the backs of horses, cattle, etc. Called also warblet, warbeetle, warnles.
Warble  See Wormil.
Warbled  of Warble
Warbling  of Warble
Warble  To sing in a trilling, quavering, or vibratory manner; to modulate with turns or variations; to trill; as, certain birds are remarkable for warbling their songs.
Warble  To utter musically; to modulate; to carol.
Warble  To cause to quaver or vibrate.
Warble  To be quavered or modulated; to be uttered melodiously.
Warble  To sing in a trilling manner, or with many turns and variations.
Warble  To sing with sudden changes from chest to head tones; to yodel.
Warble  A quavering modulation of the voice; a musical trill; a song.
Warbler  One who, or that which, warbles; a singer; a songster; -- applied chiefly to birds.
Warbler  Any one of numerous species of small Old World singing birds belonging to the family Sylviidae, many of which are noted songsters. The bluethroat, blackcap, reed warbler (see under Reed), and sedge warbler (see under Sedge) are well-known species.
Warbler  Any one of numerous species of small, often bright colored, American singing birds of the family or subfamily Mniotiltidae, or Sylvicolinae. They are allied to the Old World warblers, but most of them are not particularly musical.
Warblingly  In a warbling manner.
Warburg's  A preparation containing quinine and many other ingredients, often used in the treatment of malarial affections. It was invented by Dr. Warburg of London.
Ward  The act of guarding; watch; guard; guardianship; specifically, a guarding during the day. See the Note under Watch, n., 1.
Ward  One who, or that which, guards; garrison; defender; protector; means of guarding; defense; protection.
Ward  The state of being under guard or guardianship; confinement under guard; the condition of a child under a guardian; custody.
Ward  A guarding or defensive motion or position, as in fencing; guard.
Ward  One who, or that which, is guarded.
Ward  A minor or person under the care of a guardian; as, a ward in chancery.
Ward  A division of a county.
Ward  A division, district, or quarter of a town or city.
Ward  A division of a forest.
Ward  A division of a hospital; as, a fever ward.
Ward  A projecting ridge of metal in the interior of a lock, to prevent the use of any key which has not a corresponding notch for passing it.
Ward  A notch or slit in a key corresponding to a ridge in the lock which it fits; a ward notch.
Warded  of Ward
Warding  of Ward
Ward  To keep in safety; to watch; to guard; formerly, in a specific sense, to guard during the day time.
Ward  To defend; to protect.
Ward  To defend by walls, fortifications, etc.
Ward  To fend off; to repel; to turn aside, as anything mischievous that approaches; -- usually followed by off.
Ward  To be vigilant; to keep guard.
Ward  To act on the defensive with a weapon.
Ward-corn  The duty of keeping watch and ward (see the Note under Watch, n., 1) with a horn to be blown upon any occasion of surprise.
Wardcorps  Guardian; one set to watch over another.
Warden  A keeper; a guardian; a watchman.
Warden  An officer who keeps or guards; a keeper; as, the warden of a prison.
Warden  A head official; as, the warden of a college; specifically (Eccl.), a churchwarden.
Warden  A large, hard pear, chiefly used for baking and roasting.
Wardenry  Alt. of Wardenship
Wardenship  The office or jurisdiction of a warden.
Warder  One who wards or keeps; a keeper; a guard.
Warder  A truncheon or staff carried by a king or a commander in chief, and used in signaling his will.
Wardian  Designating, or pertaining to, a kind of glass inclosure for keeping ferns, mosses, etc., or for transporting growing plants from a distance; as, a Wardian case of plants; -- so named from the inventor, Nathaniel B. Ward, an Englishman.
Wardmote  Anciently, a meeting of the inhabitants of a ward; also, a court formerly held in each ward of London for trying defaults in matters relating to the watch, police, and the like.
Wardrobe  A room or apartment where clothes are kept, or wearing apparel is stored; a portable closet for hanging up clothes.
Wardrobe  Wearing apparel, in general; articles of dress or personal decoration.
Wardrobe  A privy.
Wardroom  A room occupied as a messroom by the commissioned officers of a war vessel. See Gunroom.
Wardroom  A room used by the citizens of a city ward, for meetings, political caucuses, elections, etc.
Wardship  The office of a ward or keeper; care and protection of a ward; guardianship; right of guardianship.
Wardship  The state of begin under a guardian; pupilage.
Wardsmen  of Wardsman
Wardsman  A man who keeps ward; a guard.
Ware  Wore.
Ware  To wear, or veer. See Wear.
Ware  Seaweed.
Ware  Articles of merchandise; the sum of articles of a particular kind or class; style or class of manufactures; especially, in the plural, goods; commodities; merchandise.
Ware  A ware; taking notice; hence, wary; cautious; on one's guard. See Beware.
Ware  The state of being ware or aware; heed.
Ware  To make ware; to warn; to take heed of; to beware of; to guard against.
Wareful  Wary; watchful; cautious.
Warefulness  Wariness; cautiousness.
Warega  A Brazilian fly whose larvae live in the skin of man and animals, producing painful sores.
Warehouses  of Warehouse
Warehouse  A storehouse for wares, or goods.
Warehoused  of Warehouse
Warehousing  of Warehouse
Warehouse  To deposit or secure in a warehouse.
Warehouse  To place in the warehouse of the government or customhouse stores, to be kept until duties are paid.
Warehousemen  of Warehouseman
Warehouseman  One who keeps a warehouse; the owner or keeper of a dock warehouse or wharf store.
Warehouseman  One who keeps a wholesale shop or store for Manchester or woolen goods.
Warehousing  The act of placing goods in a warehouse, or in a customhouse store.
Wareless  Unwary; incautious; unheeding; careless; unaware.
Warely  Cautiously; warily.
Warence  Madder.
Wareroom  A room in which goods are stored or exhibited for sale.
Wares  See 4th Ware.
Warfare  Military service; military life; contest carried on by enemies; hostilities; war.
Warfare  Contest; struggle.
Warfare  To lead a military life; to carry on continual wars.
Warfarer  One engaged in warfare; a military man; a soldier; a warrior.
Warhable  Fit for war.
Wariangle  The red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio); -- called also wurger, worrier, and throttler.
Warily  In a wary manner.
Wariment  Wariness.
Warine  A South American monkey, one of the sapajous.
Wariness  The quality or state of being wary; care to foresee and guard against evil; cautiousness.
Warish  To protect from the effects of; hence, to cure; to heal.
Warish  To be cured; to recover.
Warison  Preparation; protection; provision; supply.
Warison  Reward; requital; guerdon.
Wark  Work; a building.
Warkloom  A tool; an implement.
Warlike  Fit for war; disposed for war; as, a warlike state; a warlike disposition.
Warlike  Belonging or relating to war; military; martial.
Warlikeness  Quality of being warlike.
Warling  One often quarreled with; -- / word coined, perhaps, to rhyme with darling.
Warlock  A male witch; a wizard; a sprite; an imp.
Warlock  Of or pertaining to a warlock or warlock; impish.
Warlockry  Impishness; magic.
Warly  Warlike.
Warm  Having heat in a moderate degree; not cold as, warm milk.
Warm  Having a sensation of heat, esp. of gentle heat; glowing.
Warm  Subject to heat; having prevalence of heat, or little or no cold weather; as, the warm climate of Egypt.
Warm  Fig.: Not cool, indifferent, lukewarm, or the like, in spirit or temper; zealous; ardent; fervent; excited; sprightly; irritable; excitable.
Warm  Violent; vehement; furious; excited; passionate; as, a warm contest; a warm debate.
Warm  Being well off as to property, or in good circumstances; forehanded; rich.
Warm  In children's games, being near the object sought for; hence, being close to the discovery of some person, thing, or fact concealed.
Warm  Having yellow or red for a basis, or in their composition; -- said of colors, and opposed to cold which is of blue and its compounds.
Warmed  of Warm
Warming  of Warm
Warm  To communicate a moderate degree of heat to; to render warm; to supply or furnish heat to; as, a stove warms an apartment.
Warm  To make engaged or earnest; to interest; to engage; to excite ardor or zeal; to enliven.
Warm  To become warm, or moderately heated; as, the earth soon warms in a clear day summer.
Warm  To become ardent or animated; as, the speake/ warms as he proceeds.
Warm  The act of warming, or the state of being warmed; a warming; a heating.
Warm-blooded  Having warm blood; -- applied especially to those animals, as birds and mammals, which have warm blood, or, more properly, the power of maintaining a nearly uniform temperature whatever the temperature of the surrounding air. See Homoiothermal.
Warmer  One who, or that which, warms.
Warmful  Abounding in capacity to warm; giving warmth; as, a warmful garment.
Warm-hearted  Having strong affection; cordial; sincere; hearty; sympathetic.
Warming  a. & n. from Warm, v.
Warmly  In a warm manner; ardently.
Warmness  Warmth.
Warmonger  One who makes ar a trade or business; a mercenary.
Warmouth  An American freshwater bream, or sunfish (Chaenobryttus gulosus); -- called also red-eyed bream.
Warmth  The quality or state of being warm; gentle heat; as, the warmth of the sun; the warmth of the blood; vital warmth.
Warmth  A state of lively and excited interest; zeal; ardor; fervor; passion; enthusiasm; earnestness; as, the warmth of love or piety; he replied with much warmth.
Warmth  The glowing effect which arises from the use of warm colors; hence, any similar appearance or effect in a painting, or work of color.
Warmthless  Being without warmth; not communicating warmth; cold.
Warn  To refuse.
Warned  of Warn
Warning  of Warn
Warn  To make ware or aware; to give previous information to; to give notice to; to notify; to admonish; hence, to notify or summon by authority; as, to warn a town meeting; to warn a tenant to quit a house.
Warn  To give notice to, of approaching or probable danger or evil; to caution against anything that may prove injurious.
Warn  To ward off.
Warner  One who warns; an admonisher.
Warner  A warrener.
Warning  Giving previous notice; cautioning; admonishing; as, a warning voice.
Warning  Previous notice.
Warning  Caution against danger, or against faults or evil practices which incur danger; admonition; monition.
Warningly  In a warning manner.
Warnstore  To furnish.
Warped  of Warp
Warping  of Warp
Warp  To throw; hence, to send forth, or throw out, as words; to utter.
Warp  To turn or twist out of shape; esp., to twist or bend out of a flat plane by contraction or otherwise.
Warp  To turn aside from the true direction; to cause to bend or incline; to pervert.
Warp  To weave; to fabricate.
Warp  To tow or move, as a vessel, with a line, or warp, attached to a buoy, anchor, or other fixed object.
Warp  To cast prematurely, as young; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.
Warp  To let the tide or other water in upon (lowlying land), for the purpose of fertilization, by a deposit of warp, or slimy substance.
Warp  To run off the reel into hauls to be tarred, as yarns.
Warp  To arrange (yarns) on a warp beam.
Warp  To turn, twist, or be twisted out of shape; esp., to be twisted or bent out of a flat plane; as, a board warps in seasoning or shrinking.
Warp  to turn or incline from a straight, true, or proper course; to deviate; to swerve.
Warp  To fly with a bending or waving motion; to turn and wave, like a flock of birds or insects.
Warp  To cast the young prematurely; to slink; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.
Warp  To wind yarn off bobbins for forming the warp of a web; to wind a warp on a warp beam.
Warp  The threads which are extended lengthwise in the loom, and crossed by the woof.
Warp  A rope used in hauling or moving a vessel, usually with one end attached to an anchor, a post, or other fixed object; a towing line; a warping hawser.
Warp  A slimy substance deposited on land by tides, etc., by which a rich alluvial soil is formed.
Warp  A premature casting of young; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.
Warp  Four; esp., four herrings; a cast. See Cast, n., 17.
Warp  The state of being warped or twisted; as, the warp of a board.
Warpage  The act of warping; also, a charge per ton made on shipping in some harbors.
Warpath  The route taken by a party of Indians going on a warlike expedition.
Warper  One who, or that which, warps or twists out of shape.
Warper  One who, or that which, forms yarn or thread into warps or webs for the loom.
Warping  The act or process of one who, or that which, warps.
Warping  The art or occupation of preparing warp or webs for the weaver.
Warproof  Valor tried by war.
Warragal  The dingo.
Warrandice  The obligation by which a person, conveying a subject or a right, is bound to uphold that subject or right against every claim, challenge, or burden arising from circumstances prior to the conveyance; warranty.
Warrant  That which warrants or authorizes; a commission giving authority, or justifying the doing of anything; an act, instrument, or obligation, by which one person authorizes another to do something which he has not otherwise a right to do; an act or instrument investing one with a right or authority, and thus securing him from loss or damage; commission; authority.
Warrant  A writing which authorizes a person to receive money or other thing.
Warrant  A precept issued by a magistrate authorizing an officer to make an arrest, a seizure, or a search, or do other acts incident to the administration of justice.
Warrant  An official certificate of appointment issued to an officer of lower rank than a commissioned officer. See Warrant officer, below.
Warrant  That which vouches or insures for anything; guaranty; security.
Warrant  That which attests or proves; a voucher.
Warrant  Right; legality; allowance.
Warranted  of Warrant
Warranting  of Warrant
Warrant  To make secure; to give assurance against harm; to guarantee safety to; to give authority or power to do, or forbear to do, anything by which the person authorized is secured, or saved harmless, from any loss or damage by his action.
Warrant  To support by authority or proof; to justify; to maintain; to sanction; as, reason warrants it.
Warrant  To give a warrant or warranty to; to assure as if by giving a warrant to.
Warrant  To secure to, as a grantee, an estate granted; to assure.
Warrant  To secure to, as a purchaser of goods, the title to the same; to indemnify against loss.
Warrant  To secure to, as a purchaser, the quality or quantity of the goods sold, as represented. See Warranty, n., 2.
Warrant  To assure, as a thing sold, to the purchaser; that is, to engage that the thing is what it appears, or is represented, to be, which implies a covenant to make good any defect or loss incurred by it.
Warrantable  Authorized by commission, precept, or right; justifiable; defensible; as, the seizure of a thief is always warrantable by law and justice; falsehood is never warrantable.
Warrantee  The person to whom a warrant or warranty is made.
Warranter  One who warrants, gives authority, or legally empowers.
Warranter  One who assures, or covenants to assure; one who contracts to secure another in a right, or to make good any defect of title or quality; one who gives a warranty; a guarantor; as, the warranter of a horse.
Warrantise  Authority; security; warranty.
Warrantise  To warrant.
Warrantor  One who warrants.
Warranties  of Warranty
Warranty  A covenant real, whereby the grantor of an estate of freehold and his heirs were bound to warrant and defend the title, and, in case of eviction by title paramount, to yield other lands of equal value in recompense. This warranty has long singe become obsolete, and its place supplied by personal covenants for title. Among these is the covenant of warranty, which runs with the land, and is in the nature of a real covenant.
Warranty  An engagement or undertaking, express or implied, that a certain fact regarding the subject of a contract is, or shall be, as it is expressly or impliedly declared or promised to be. In sales of goods by persons in possession, there is an implied warranty of title, but, as to the quality of goods, the rule of every sale is, Caveat emptor.
Warranty  A stipulation or engagement by a party insured, that certain things, relating to the subject of insurance, or affecting the risk, exist, or shall exist, or have been done, or shall be done. These warranties, when express, should appear in the policy; but there are certain implied warranties.
Warranty  Justificatory mandate or precept; authority; warrant.
Warranty  Security; warrant; guaranty.
Warranty  To warrant; to guarantee.
Warray  To make war upon. [Obs.] Fairfax.
Warre  Worse.
Warren  A place privileged, by prescription or grant the king, for keeping certain animals (as hares, conies, partridges, pheasants, etc.) called beasts and fowls of warren.
Warren  A privilege which one has in his lands, by royal grant or prescription, of hunting and taking wild beasts and birds of warren, to the exclusion of any other person not entering by his permission.
Warren  A piece of ground for the breeding of rabbits.
Warren  A place for keeping flash, in a river.
Warrener  The keeper of a warren.
Warriangle  See Wariangle.
Warrie  See Warye.
Warrin  An Australian lorikeet (Trichoglossus multicolor) remarkable for the variety and brilliancy of its colors; -- called also blue-bellied lorikeet, and blue-bellied parrot.
Warrior  A man engaged or experienced in war, or in the military life; a soldier; a champion.
Warrioress  A female warrior.
Warry  See Warye.
Warsaw  The black grouper (Epinephelus nigritus) of the southern coasts of the United States.
Warsaw  The jewfish; -- called also guasa.
Wart  A small, usually hard, tumor on the skin formed by enlargement of its vascular papillae, and thickening of the epidermis which covers them.
Wart  An excrescence or protuberance more or less resembling a true wart; specifically (Bot.), a glandular excrescence or hardened protuberance on plants.
Warted  Having little knobs on the surface; verrucose; as, a warted capsule.
Wart  Either one of two species of large, savage African wild hogs of the genus Phacoch/rus. These animals have a pair of large, rough, fleshy tubercles behind the tusks and second pair behind the eyes. The tusks are large and strong, and both pairs curve upward. The body is scantily covered with bristles, but there is long dorsal mane. The South African species (Phacoch/rus Aethiopicus) is the best known. Called also vlacke vark. The second species (P. Aeliani) is native of the coasts of the Red Sea.
Wartless  Having no wart.
Wartweed  Same as Wartwort.
Wartwort  A name given to several plants because they were thought to be a cure for warts, as a kind of spurge (Euphorbia Helioscopia), and the nipplewort (Lampsana communis).
Warty  Having warts; full of warts; overgrow with warts; as, a warty leaf.
Warty  Of the nature of warts; as, a warty excrescence.
Warwickite  A dark brown or black mineral, occurring in prismatic crystals imbedded in limestone near Warwick, New York. It consists of the borate and titanate of magnesia and iron.
Warworn  Worn with military service; as, a warworn soldier; a warworn coat.
Wary  Cautious of danger; carefully watching and guarding against deception, artifices, and dangers; timorously or suspiciously prudent; circumspect; scrupulous; careful.
Wary  Characterized by caution; guarded; careful.
Warye  To curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex.
Was  The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was.
Wase  A bundle of straw, or other material, to relieve the pressure of burdens carried upon the head.
Washed  of Wash
Washing  of Wash
Wash  To cleanse by ablution, or dipping or rubbing in water; to apply water or other liquid to for the purpose of cleansing; to scrub with water, etc., or as with water; as, to wash the hands or body; to wash garments; to wash sheep or wool; to wash the pavement or floor; to wash the bark of trees.
Wash  To cover with water or any liquid; to wet; to fall on and moisten; hence, to overflow or dash against; as, waves wash the shore.
Wash  To waste or abrade by the force of water in motion; as, heavy rains wash a road or an embankment.
Wash  To remove by washing to take away by, or as by, the action of water; to drag or draw off as by the tide; -- often with away, off, out, etc.; as, to wash dirt from the hands.
Wash  To cover with a thin or watery coat of color; to tint lightly and thinly.
Wash  To overlay with a thin coat of metal; as, steel washed with silver.
Wash  To perform the act of ablution.
Wash  To clean anything by rubbing or dipping it in water; to perform the business of cleansing clothes, ore, etc., in water.
Wash  To bear without injury the operation of being washed; as, some calicoes do not wash.
Wash  To be wasted or worn away by the action of water, as by a running or overflowing stream, or by the dashing of the sea; -- said of road, a beach, etc.
Wash  The act of washing; an ablution; a cleansing, wetting, or dashing with water; hence, a quantity, as of clothes, washed at once.
Wash  A piece of ground washed by the action of a sea or river, or sometimes covered and sometimes left dry; the shallowest part of a river, or arm of the sea; also, a bog; a marsh; a fen; as, the washes in Lincolnshire.
Wash  Substances collected and deposited by the action of water; as, the wash of a sewer, of a river, etc.
Wash  Waste liquid, the refuse of food, the collection from washed dishes, etc., from a kitchen, often used as food for pigs.
Wash  The fermented wort before the spirit is extracted.
Wash  A mixture of dunder, molasses, water, and scummings, used in the West Indies for distillation.
Wash  That with which anything is washed, or wetted, smeared, tinted, etc., upon the surface.
Wash  A liquid cosmetic for the complexion.
Wash  A liquid dentifrice.
Wash  A liquid preparation for the hair; as, a hair wash.
Wash  A medical preparation in a liquid form for external application; a lotion.
Wash  A thin coat of color, esp. water color.
Wash  A thin coat of metal laid on anything for beauty or preservation.
Wash  The blade of an oar, or the thin part which enters the water.
Wash  The backward current or disturbed water caused by the action of oars, or of a steamer's screw or paddles, etc.
Wash  The flow, swash, or breaking of a body of water, as a wave; also, the sound of it.
Wash  Ten strikes, or bushels, of oysters.
Wash  Washy; weak.
Wash  Capable of being washed without injury; washable; as, wash goods.
Washable  Capable of being washed without damage to fabric or color.
Washboard  A fluted, or ribbed, board on which clothes are rubbed in washing them.
Washboard  A board running round, and serving as a facing for, the walls of a room, next to the floor; a mopboard.
Washboard  A broad, thin plank, fixed along the gunwale of boat to keep the sea from breaking inboard; also, a plank on the sill of a lower deck port, for the same purpose; -- called also wasteboard.
Washbowl  A basin, or bowl, to hold water for washing one's hands, face, etc.
Washdish  A washbowl.
Washdish  Same as Washerwoman, 2.
Washed  Appearing as if overlaid with a thin layer of different color; -- said of the colors of certain birds and insects.
Washen  p. p. of Wash.
Washer  One who, or that which, washes.
Washer  A ring of metal, leather, or other material, or a perforated plate, used for various purposes, as around a bolt or screw to form a seat for the head or nut, or around a wagon axle to prevent endwise motion of the hub of the wheel and relieve friction, or in a joint to form a packing, etc.
Washer  A fitting, usually having a plug, applied to a cistern, tub, sink, or the like, and forming the outlet opening.
Washer  The common raccoon.
Washer  Same as Washerwoman, 2.
Washermen  of Washerman
Washerman  A man who washes clothes, esp. for hire, or for others.
Washerwomen  of Washerwoman
Washerwoman  A woman who washes clothes, especially for hire, or for others.
Washerwoman  The pied wagtail; -- so called in allusion to its beating the water with its tail while tripping along the leaves of water plants.
Washhouse  An outbuilding for washing, esp. one for washing clothes; a laundry.
Washiness  The quality or state of being washy, watery, or weak.
Washing  The act of one who washes; the act of cleansing with water; ablution.
Washing  The clothes washed, esp. at one time; a wash.
Washingtonian  Pertaining to, or characteristic of, George Washington; as, a Washingtonian policy.
Washingtonian  Designating, or pertaining to, a temperance society and movement started in Baltimore in 1840 on the principle of total abstinence.
Washingtonian  A member of the Washingtonian Society.
Wash-off  Capable of being washed off; not permanent or durable; -- said of colors not fixed by steaming or otherwise.
Washout  The washing out or away of earth, etc., especially of a portion of the bed of a road or railroad by a fall of rain or a freshet; also, a place, especially in the bed of a road or railroad, where the earth has been washed away.
Washpot  A pot or vessel in which anything is washed.
Washpot  A pot containing melted tin into which the plates are dipped to be coated.
Washstand  A piece of furniture holding the ewer or pitcher, basin, and other requisites for washing the person.
Washtub  A tub in which clothes are washed.
Washy  Watery; damp; soft.
Washy  Lacking substance or strength; weak; thin; dilute; feeble; as, washy tea; washy resolutions.
Washy  Not firm or hardy; liable to sweat profusely with labor; as, a washy horse.
Wasite  A variety of allanite from Sweden supposed to contain wasium.
Wasium  A rare element supposed by Bahr to have been extracted from wasite, but now identified with thorium.
Wasp  Any one of numerous species of stinging hymenopterous insects, esp. any of the numerous species of the genus Vespa, which includes the true, or social, wasps, some of which are called yellow jackets.
Waspish  Resembling a wasp in form; having a slender waist, like a wasp.
Waspish  Quick to resent a trifling affront; characterized by snappishness; irritable; irascible; petulant; snappish.
Wassail  An ancient expression of good wishes on a festive occasion, especially in drinking to some one.
Wassail  An occasion on which such good wishes are expressed in drinking; a drinking bout; a carouse.
Wassail  The liquor used for a wassail; esp., a beverage formerly much used in England at Christmas and other festivals, made of ale (or wine) flavored with spices, sugar, toast, roasted apples, etc.; -- called also lamb's wool.
Wassail  A festive or drinking song or glee.
Wassail  Of or pertaining to wassail, or to a wassail; convivial; as, a wassail bowl.
Wassail  To hold a wassail; to carouse.
Wassailer  One who drinks wassail; one who engages in festivity, especially in drinking; a reveler.
Wast  The second person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, imperfect tense; -- now used only in solemn or poetical style. See Was.
Wastage  Loss by use, decay, evaporation, leakage, or the like; waste.
Waste  Desolate; devastated; stripped; bare; hence, dreary; dismal; gloomy; cheerless.
Waste  Lying unused; unproductive; worthless; valueless; refuse; rejected; as, waste land; waste paper.
Waste  Lost for want of occupiers or use; superfluous.
Wasted  of Waste
Wasting  of Waste
Waste  To bring to ruin; to devastate; to desolate; to destroy.
Waste  To wear away by degrees; to impair gradually; to diminish by constant loss; to use up; to consume; to spend; to wear out.
Waste  To spend unnecessarily or carelessly; to employ prodigally; to expend without valuable result; to apply to useless purposes; to lavish vainly; to squander; to cause to be lost; to destroy by scattering or injury.
Waste  To damage, impair, or injure, as an estate, voluntarily, or by suffering the buildings, fences, etc., to go to decay.
Waste  To be diminished; to lose bulk, substance, strength, value, or the like, gradually; to be consumed; to dwindle; to grow less.
Waste  To procure or sustain a reduction of flesh; -- said of a jockey in preparation for a race, etc.
Waste  The act of wasting, or the state of being wasted; a squandering; needless destruction; useless consumption or expenditure; devastation; loss without equivalent gain; gradual loss or decrease, by use, wear, or decay; as, a waste of property, time, labor, words, etc.
Waste  That which is wasted or desolate; a devastated, uncultivated, or wild country; a deserted region; an unoccupied or unemployed space; a dreary void; a desert; a wilderness.
Waste  That which is of no value; worthless remnants; refuse. Specifically: Remnants of cops, or other refuse resulting from the working of cotton, wool, hemp, and the like, used for wiping machinery, absorbing oil in the axle boxes of railway cars, etc.
Waste  Spoil, destruction, or injury, done to houses, woods, fences, lands, etc., by a tenant for life or for years, to the prejudice of the heir, or of him in reversion or remainder.
Waste  Old or abandoned workings, whether left as vacant space or filled with refuse.
Wastebasket  A basket used in offices, libraries, etc., as a receptacle for waste paper.
Wasteboard  See Washboard, 3.
Wastebook  A book in which rough entries of transactions are made, previous to their being carried into the journal.
Wasteful  Full of waste; destructive to property; ruinous; as, wasteful practices or negligence; wasteful expenses.
Wasteful  Expending, or tending to expend, property, or that which is valuable, in a needless or useless manner; lavish; prodigal; as, a wasteful person; a wasteful disposition.
Wasteful  Waste; desolate; unoccupied; untilled.
Wastel  A kind of white and fine bread or cake; -- called also wastel bread, and wastel cake.
Wasteness  The quality or state of being waste; a desolate state or condition; desolation.
Wasteness  That which is waste; a desert; a waste.
Waster  One who, or that which, wastes; one who squanders; one who consumes or expends extravagantly; a spendthrift; a prodigal.
Waster  An imperfection in the wick of a candle, causing it to waste; -- called also a thief.
Waster  A kind of cudgel; also, a blunt-edged sword used as a foil.
Wastethrift  A spendthrift.
Wasteweir  An overfall, or weir, for the escape, or overflow, of superfluous water from a canal, reservoir, pond, or the like.
Wasting  Causing waste; also, undergoing waste; diminishing; as, a wasting disease; a wasting fortune.
Wastor  A waster; a thief.
Wastorel  See Wastrel.
Wastrel  Any waste thing or substance
Wastrel  Waste land or common land.
Wastrel  A profligate.
Wastrel  A neglected child; a street Arab.
Wastrel  Anything cast away as bad or useless, as imperfect bricks, china, etc.
Watch  The act of watching; forbearance of sleep; vigil; wakeful, vigilant, or constantly observant attention; close observation; guard; preservative or preventive vigilance; formerly, a watching or guarding by night.
Watch  One who watches, or those who watch; a watchman, or a body of watchmen; a sentry; a guard.
Watch  The post or office of a watchman; also, the place where a watchman is posted, or where a guard is kept.
Watch  The period of the night during which a person does duty as a sentinel, or guard; the time from the placing of a sentinel till his relief; hence, a division of the night.
Watch  A small timepiece, or chronometer, to be carried about the person, the machinery of which is moved by a spring.
Watch  An allotted portion of time, usually four hour for standing watch, or being on deck ready for duty. Cf. Dogwatch.
Watch  That part, usually one half, of the officers and crew, who together attend to the working of a vessel for an allotted time, usually four hours. The watches are designated as the port watch, and the starboard watch.
Watch  To be awake; to be or continue without sleep; to wake; to keep vigil.
Watch  To be attentive or vigilant; to give heed; to be on the lookout; to keep guard; to act as sentinel.
Watch  To be expectant; to look with expectation; to wait; to seek opportunity.
Watch  To remain awake with any one as nurse or attendant; to attend on the sick during the night; as, to watch with a man in a fever.
Watch  To serve the purpose of a watchman by floating properly in its place; -- said of a buoy.
Watched  of Watch
Watching  of Watch
Watch  To give heed to; to observe the actions or motions of, for any purpose; to keep in view; not to lose from sight and observation; as, to watch the progress of a bill in the legislature.
Watch  To tend; to guard; to have in keeping.
Watchdog  A dog kept to watch and guard premises or property, and to give notice of the approach of intruders.
Watcher  One who watches; one who sits up or continues; a diligent observer; specifically, one who attends upon the sick during the night.
Watches  The leaves of Saracenia flava. See Trumpets.
Watchet  Pale or light blue.
Watchful  Full of watch; vigilant; attentive; careful to observe closely; observant; cautious; -- with of before the thing to be regulated or guarded; as, to be watchful of one's behavior; and with against before the thing to be avoided; as, to be watchful against the growth of vicious habits.
Watchhouses  of Watchhouse
Watchhouse  A house in which a watch or guard is placed.
Watchhouse  A place where persons under temporary arrest by the police of a city are kept; a police station; a lockup.
Watchmaker  One whose occupation is to make and repair watches.
Watchmen  of Watchman
Watchman  One set to watch; a person who keeps guard; a guard; a sentinel.
Watchman  Specifically, one who guards a building, or the streets of a city, by night.
Watchtower  A tower in which a sentinel is placed to watch for enemies, the approach of danger, or the like.
Watchword  A word given to sentinels, and to such as have occasion to visit the guards, used as a signal by which a friend is known from an enemy, or a person who has a right to pass the watch from one who has not; a countersign; a password.
Watchword  A sentiment or motto; esp., one used as a rallying cry or a signal for action.
Water  The fluid which descends from the clouds in rain, and which forms rivers, lakes, seas, etc.
Water  A body of water, standing or flowing; a lake, river, or other collection of water.
Water  Any liquid secretion, humor, or the like, resembling water; esp., the urine.
Water  A solution in water of a gaseous or readily volatile substance; as, ammonia water.
Water  The limpidity and luster of a precious stone, especially a diamond; as, a diamond of the first water, that is, perfectly pure and transparent. Hence, of the first water, that is, of the first excellence.
Water  A wavy, lustrous pattern or decoration such as is imparted to linen, silk, metals, etc. See Water, v. t., 3, Damask, v. t., and Damaskeen.
Water  An addition to the shares representing the capital of a stock company so that the aggregate par value of the shares is increased while their value for investment is diminished, or "diluted."
Watered  of Water
Watering  of Water
Water  To wet or supply with water; to moisten; to overflow with water; to irrigate; as, to water land; to water flowers.
Water  To supply with water for drink; to cause or allow to drink; as, to water cattle and horses.
Water  To wet and calender, as cloth, so as to impart to it a lustrous appearance in wavy lines; to diversify with wavelike lines; as, to water silk. Cf. Water, n., 6.
Water  To add water to (anything), thereby extending the quantity or bulk while reducing the strength or quality; to extend; to dilute; to weaken.
Water  To shed, secrete, or fill with, water or liquid matter; as, his eyes began to water.
Water  To get or take in water; as, the ship put into port to water.
Water  The water moccasin.
Water  The common, harmless American water snake (Tropidonotus sipedon). See Illust. under Water Snake.
Waterage  Money paid for transportation of goods, etc., by water.
Water  A kind of bur marigold (Bidens tripartita) found in wet places in Europe.
Water  See Water soldier.
Water  See Water buck.
Water  An aroid herb (Calla palustris) having a white spathe. It is an inhabitant of the north temperate zone.
Water  See under 1st Back.
Water  An officer of the customs, whose duty it is to search vessels.
Water  Water confined in specially constructed compartments in a vessel's hold, to serve as ballast.
Water  A barometer in which the changes of atmospheric pressure are indicated by the motion of a column of water instead of mercury. It requires a column of water about thirty-three feet in height.
Water  A device for regulating the temperature of anything subjected to heat, by surrounding the vessel containing it with another vessel containing water which can be kept at a desired temperature; also, a vessel designed for this purpose.
Water  A voltaic battery in which the exciting fluid is water.
Water  A battery nearly on a level with the water.
Water  Any species of Tardigrada, 2. See Illust. of Tardigrada.
Water-bearer  The constellation Aquarius.
Water  A kind of mattress made of, or covered with, waterproof fabric and filled with water. It is used in hospitals for bedridden patients.
Water  The American hornbeam. See Hornbeam.
Water  Any one of numerous species of aquatic beetles belonging to Dytiscus and allied genera of the family Dytiscidae, and to various genera of the family Hydrophilidae. These beetles swim with great agility, the fringed hind legs acting together like oars.
Water  Same as Tromp.
Water  Any aquatic bird; a water fowl.
Water  The European water ousel, or dipper.
Waterboard  A board set up to windward in a boat, to keep out water.
Water  A boat bug.
Waterbok  A water buck.
Water-bound  Prevented by a flood from proceeding.
Water  A disease of sheep; gid.
Water  See under Brash.
Water  Any arthropod that breathes by means of gills.
Water  See Water table.
Water  A large, heavy antelope (Kobus ellipsiprymnus) native of Central Africa. It frequents the banks of rivers and is a good swimmer. It has a white ring around the rump. Called also photomok, water antelope, and waterbok.
Water  The European buffalo.
Water  The Croton bug.
Water  Any one of numerous species of large, rapacious, aquatic, hemipterous insects belonging to Belostoma, Benacus, Zaitha, and other genera of the family Belostomatidae. Their hind legs are long and fringed, and act like oars. Some of these insects are of great size, being among the largest existing Hemiptera. Many of them come out of the water and fly about at night.
Water  A large, open-headed cask, set up on end, to contain water.
Water  The water chestnut.
Water  Any one of several species of Nuphar; the yellow frog lily; -- so called from the shape of the seed vessel. See Nuphar, and cf. Candock.
Water  See Canker, n., 1.
Water  Transportation or conveyance by water; means of transporting by water.
Water  A vessel or boat.
Water  A cart carrying water; esp., one carrying water for sale, or for sprinkling streets, gardens, etc.
Water  The capybara.
Water  A very acrid herb (Ranunculus sceleratus) growing in ditches and wet places; -- called also cursed crowfoot.
Water  A cell containing water; specifically (Zool.), one of the cells or chambers in which water is stored up in the stomach of a camel.
Water  Hydraulic cement.
Water  The fruit of Trapa natans and Trapa bicornis, Old World water plants bearing edible nutlike fruits armed with several hard and sharp points; also, the plant itself; -- called also water caltrop.
Water  A large West African chevrotain (Hyaemoschus aquaticus). It has a larger body and shorter legs than the other allied species. Called also water deerlet.
Water  The common American gallinule.
Water  A small annual plant (Montia fontana) growing in wet places in southern regions.
Water  The American lotus, and its edible seeds, which somewhat resemble chinquapins. Cf. Yoncopin.
Water  An instrument or machine serving to measure time by the fall, or flow, of a certain quantity of water; a clepsydra.
Water-closet  A privy; especially, a privy furnished with a contrivance for introducing a stream of water to cleanse it.
Water  A large gallinule (Gallicrex cristatus) native of Australia, India, and the East Indies. In the breeding season the male is black and has a fleshy red caruncle, or horn, on the top of its head. Called also kora.
Water  A color ground with water and gum or other glutinous medium; a color the vehicle of which is water; -- so called in distinction from oil color.
Water  A picture painted with such colors.
Water-colorist  One who paints in water colors.
Water  A stream of water; a river or brook.
Water  A natural channel for water; also, a canal for the conveyance of water, especially in draining lands.
Water  A running stream of water having a bed and banks; the easement one may have in the flowing of such a stream in its accustomed course. A water course may be sometimes dry.
Water  Any vessel or boat plying on water; vessels and boats, collectively.
Water  The dipper.
Water  The spotted crake (Porzana maruetta). See Illust. of Crake.
Water  The swamp hen, or crake, of Australia.
Water  A goose-neck apparatus for supplying water from an elevated tank, as to the tender of a locomotive.
Water  A perennial cruciferous herb (Nasturtium officinale) growing usually in clear running or spring water. The leaves are pungent, and used for salad and as an antiscorbutic.
Water  The dipper.
Water  The European coot.
Water  An aquatic kind of buttercup (Ranunculus aquatilis), used as food for cattle in parts of England.
Water  Hydropathy.
Water  A hydropathic institution.
Water  A covering of painting canvas for the equipments of a dragoon's horse.
Water  A small Chinese deer (Hydropotes inermis). Both sexes are destitute of antlers, but the male has large, descending canine tusks.
Water  The water chevrotain.
Water  See Water chevrotain.
Water  The rapacious larva of a large water beetle (Hydrophilus piceus), and of other similar species. See Illust. of Water beetle.
Water  A tall, coarse dock growing in wet places. The American water dock is Rumex orbiculatus, the European is R. Hydrolapathum.
Water  One who professes to be able to divine diseases by inspection of the urine.
Water  A physician who treats diseases with water; an hydropathist.
Water  A dog accustomed to the water, or trained to retrieve waterfowl. Retrievers, waters spaniels, and Newfoundland dogs are so trained.
Water  The menobranchus.
Water  A small floating cloud, supposed to indicate rain.
Water  A sailor, esp. an old sailor; an old salt.
Water  A drain or channel for draining off water.
Water  The draining off of water.
Water  The treatment of wounds or ulcers by the application of water; also, a dressing saturated with water only, for application to a wound or an ulcer.
Water  A European poisonous umbelliferous plant (Enanthe fistulosa) with large hollow stems and finely divided leaves.
Water  The osprey.
Water  The guelder-rose.
Water  The hippopotamus.
Water  An engine to raise water; or an engine moved by water; also, an engine or machine for extinguishing fires; a fire engine.
Waterer  One who, or that which, waters.
Waterfall  A fall, or perpendicular descent, of the water of a river or stream, or a descent nearly perpendicular; a cascade; a cataract.
Waterfall  An arrangement of a woman's back hair over a cushion or frame in some resemblance to a waterfall.
Waterfall  A certain kind of neck scarf.
Water  Alt. of Water feather-foil
Water  The water violet (Hottonia palustris); also, the less showy American plant H. inflata.
Water  A European species of Iris (Iris Pseudacorus) having bright yellow flowers.
Water  A floating mass formed in pools by the entangled filaments of a European fresh-water alga (Cladophora crispata).
Water  Any one of numerous species of small aquatic Entomostraca belonging to the genera Cyclops, Daphnia, etc; -- so called because they swim with sudden leaps, or starts.
Waterflood  A flood of water; an inundation.
Water  The windowpane (Pleuronectes maculatus).
Waterfowl  Any bird that frequents the water, or lives about rivers, lakes, etc., or on or near the sea; an aquatic fowl; -- used also collectively.
Water  The carp; -- so called on account of its cunning.
Water  A name given to the first power spinning machine, because driven by water power.
Water  A deep furrow for conducting water from the ground, and keeping the surface soil dry.
Water-furrow  To make water furrows in.
Water  See Water gauge.
Water  A cavity made in the earth by a torrent of water; a washout.
Water  A watery appearance in the sky, accompanying the rainbow; a secondary or broken rainbow.
Water  A passage for water, such as was usually made in a sea wall, to drain water out of marshes.
Water  See under Gas.
Water  A gate, or valve, by which a flow of water is permitted, prevented, or regulated.
Water  A wall or bank to hold water back.
Water  An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the depth or quantity of water, or for indicating the height of its surface, as in the boiler of a steam engine. See Gauge.
Xanthamide  An amido derivative of xanthic acid obtained as a white crystalline substance, C2H5O.CS.NH2; -- called also xanthogen amide.
Xanthate  A salt of xanthic; a xanthogenate.
Xanthelasma  See Xanthoma.
Xanthian  Of or pertaining to Xanthus, an ancient town on Asia Minor; -- applied especially to certain marbles found near that place, and now in the British Museum.
Xanthic  Tending toward a yellow color, or to one of those colors, green being excepted, in which yellow is a constituent, as scarlet, orange, etc.
Xanthic  Possessing, imparting, or producing a yellow color; as, xanthic acid.
Xanthic  Of or pertaining to xanthic acid, or its compounds; xanthogenic.
Xanthic  Of or pertaining to xanthin.
Xanthide  A compound or derivative of xanthogen.
Xanthidia  of Xanthidium
Xanthidium  A genus of minute unicellular algae of the desmids. These algae have a rounded shape and are armed with glochidiate or branched aculei. Several species occur in ditches, and others are found fossil in flint or hornstone.
Xanthin  A crystalline nitrogenous body closely related to both uric acid and hypoxanthin, present in muscle tissue, and occasionally found in the urine and in some urinary calculi. It is also present in guano. So called from the yellow color of certain of its salts (nitrates).
Xanthin  A yellow insoluble coloring matter extracted from yellow flowers; specifically, the coloring matter of madder.
Xanthin  One of the gaseous or volatile decomposition products of the xanthates, and probably identical with carbon disulphide.
Xanthinine  A complex nitrogenous substance related to urea and uric acid, produced as a white powder; -- so called because it forms yellow salts, and because its solution forms a blue fluorescence like quinine.
Xanthium  A genus of composite plants in which the scales of the involucre are united so as to form a kind of bur; cocklebur; clotbur.
Xantho-  A combining form from Gr. xanqo`s yellow; as in xanthocobaltic salts. Used also adjectively in chemistry.
Xanthocarpous  Having yellow fruit.
Xanthochroi  A division of the Caucasian races, comprising the lighter-colored members.
Xanthochroic  Having a yellowish or fair complexion; of or pertaining to the Xanthochroi.
Xanthodontous  Having yellow teeth.
Xanthogen  The hypothetical radical supposed to be characteristic of xanthic acid.
Xanthogen  Persulphocyanogen.
Xanthogenate  A salt of xanthic acid.
Xanthogenic  Producing a yellow color or compound; xanthic. See Xanthic acid, under Xanthic.
Xanthoma  A skin disease marked by the development or irregular yellowish patches upon the skin, especially upon the eyelids; -- called also xanthelasma.
Xanthophane  The yellow pigment present in the inner segments of the retina in animals. See Chromophane.
Xanthophyll  A yellow coloring matter found in yellow autumn leaves, and also produced artificially from chlorophyll; -- formerly called also phylloxanthin.
Xanthopous  Having a yellow stipe, or stem.
Xanthoproteic  Pertaining to, or derived from, xanthoprotein; showing the characters of xanthoprotein; as, xanthoproteic acid; the xanthoproteic reaction for albumin.
Xanthoprotein  A yellow acid substance formed by the action of hot nitric acid on albuminous or proteid matter. It is changed to a deep orange-yellow color by the addition of ammonia.
Xanthopuccine  One of three alkaloids found in the root of the yellow puccoon (Hydrastis Canadensis). It is a yellow crystalline substance, and resembles berberine.
Xanthorhamnin  A glucoside extracted from Persian berries as a yellow crystalline powder, used as a dyestuff.
Xanthorhiza  A genus of shrubby ranunculaceous plants of North America, including only the species Xanthorhiza apiifolia, which has roots of a deep yellow color; yellowroot. The bark is intensely bitter, and is sometimes used as a tonic.
Xanthorhoea  A genus of endogenous plants, native to Australia, having a thick, sometimes arborescent, stem, and long grasslike leaves. See Grass tree.
Xanthose  An orange-yellow substance found in pigment spots of certain crabs.
Xanthosis  The yellow discoloration often observed in cancerous tumors.
Xanthospermous  Having yellow seeds.
Xanthous  Yellow; specifically (Ethnol.), of or pertaining to those races of man which have yellowish, red, auburn, or brown hair.
Xanthoxylene  A liquid hydrocarbon of the terpene series extracted from the seeds of a Japanese prickly ash (Xanthoxylum pipertium) as an aromatic oil.
Xanthoxylum  A genus of prickly shrubs or small trees, the bark and rots of which are of a deep yellow color; prickly ash.
Xebec  A small three-masted vessel, with projecting bow stern and convex decks, used in the Mediterranean for transporting merchandise, etc. It carries large square sails, or both. Xebecs were formerly armed and used by corsairs.
Xeme  An Arctic fork-tailed gull (Xema Sabinii).
Xenelasia  A Spartan institution which prohibited strangers from residing in Sparta without permission, its object probably being to preserve the national simplicity of manners.
Xenia  of Xenium
Xenium  A present given to a guest or stranger, or to a foreign ambassador.
Xenodochium  A house for the reception of strangers.
Xenodochium  In the Middle Ages, a room in a monastery for the reception and entertainment of strangers and pilgrims, and for the relief of paupers. [Called also Xenodocheion.]
Xenodochy  Reception of strangers; hospitality.
Xenogamy  Cross fertilization.
Xenogenesis  Same as Heterogenesis.
Xenogenesis  The fancied production of an organism of one kind by an organism of another.
Xenogenetic  Of or pertaining to xenogenesis; as, the xenogenetic origin of microzymes.
Xenomania  A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, foreign customs, institutions, manners, fashions, etc.
Xenomi  A suborder of soft-rayed fresh-water fishes of which the blackfish of Alaska (Dallia pectoralis) is the type.
Xenopterygii  A suborder of fishes including Gobiesox and allied genera. These fishes have soft-rayed fins, and a ventral sucker supported in front by the pectoral fins. They are destitute of scales.
Xenotime  A native phosphate of yttrium occurring in yellowish-brown tetragonal crystals.
Xenurine  A cabassou.
Xenyl  The radical characteristic of xenylic compounds.
Xenylic  Pertaining to, derived from, designating, certain amido compounds obtained by reducing certain nitro derivatives of diphenyl.
Xeraphim  An old money of account in Bombay, equal to three fifths of a rupee.
Xeres  Sherry. See Sherry.
Xerif  A shereef.
Xeriff  A gold coin formerly current in Egypt and Turkey, of the value of about 9s. 6d., or about $2.30; -- also, in Morocco, a ducat.
Xeroderma  Ichthyosis.
Xeroderma  A skin disease characterized by the presence of numerous small pigmented spots resembling freckles, with which are subsequently mingled spots of atrophied skin.
Xeronate  A salt of xeronic acid.
Xeronic  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C8H12O4, related to fumaric acid, and obtained from citraconic acid as an oily substance having a bittersweet taste; -- so called from its tendency to form its anhydride.
Xerophagy  Among the primitive Christians, the living on a diet of dry food in Lent and on other fasts.
Xerophilous  Drought-loving; able withstand the absence or lack of moisture.
Xerophthalmia  An abnormal dryness of the eyeball produced usually by long-continued inflammation and subsequent atrophy of the conjunctiva.
Xerophthalmy  Xerophthalmia.
Xiphias  A genus of fishes comprising the common swordfish.
Xiphias  The constellation Dorado.
Xiphias  A comet shaped like a sword
Xiphidium  A genus of plants of the order Haemodraceae, having two-ranked, sword-shaped leaves.
Xiphioid  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cetacean of the genus Xiphius or family Xiphiidae.
Xiphiplastra  of Xiphiplastron
Xiphiplastron  The posterior, or fourth, lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also xiphisternum.
Xiphisterna  of Xiphisternum
Xiphisternum  The posterior segment, or extremity, of the sternum; -- sometimes called metasternum, ensiform cartilage, ensiform process, or xiphoid process.
Xiphisternum  The xiphiplastron.
Xiphius  A genus of cetaceans having a long, pointed, bony beak, usually two tusklike teeth in the lower jaw, but no teeth in the upper jaw.
Xiphodon  An extinct genus of artiodactylous mammals found in the European Tertiary formations. It had slender legs, didactylous feet, and small canine teeth.
Xiphoid  Like a sword; ensiform.
Xiphoid  Of or pertaining to the xiphoid process; xiphoidian.
Xiphoidian  Xiphoid.
Xiphophyllous  Having sword-shaped leaves.
Xiphosura  See Xiphura.
Xiphura  Same as Limuloidea. Called also Xiphosura.
Xylamide  An acid amide derivative of xylic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Xylanthrax  Wood coal, or charcoal; -- so called in distinction from mineral coal.
Xylate  A salt of xylic acid.
Xylem  That portion of a fibrovascular bundle which has developed, or will develop, into wood cells; -- distinguished from phloem.
Xylene  Any of a group of three metameric hydrocarbons of the aromatic series, found in coal and wood tar, and so named because found in crude wood spirit. They are colorless, oily, inflammable liquids, C6H4.(CH3)2, being dimethyl benzenes, and are called respectively orthoxylene, metaxylene, and paraxylene. Called also xylol.
Xylenol  Any one of six metameric phenol derivatives of xylene, obtained as crystalline substances, (CH3)2.C6H3.OH.
Xyletic  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid related to mesitylenic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance by the action of sodium and carbon dioxide on crude xylenol.
Xylic  Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, xylene; specifically, designating any one of several metameric acids produced by the partial oxidation of mesitylene and pseudo-cumene.
Xylidic  Pertaining to, or designating, either one of two distinct acids which are derived from xylic acid and related compounds, and are metameric with uvitic acid.
Xylidine  Any one of six metameric hydrocarbons, (CH3)2.C6H3.NH2, resembling aniline, and related to xylene. They are liquids, or easily fusible crystalline substances, of which three are derived from metaxylene, two from orthoxylene, and one from paraxylene. They are called the amido xylenes.
Xylindein  A green or blue pigment produced by Peziza in certain kinds of decayed wood, as the beech, oak, birch, etc., and extracted as an amorphous powder resembling indigo.
Xylite  A liquid hydrocarbon found in crude wood spirits.
Xylitone  A yellow oil having a geraniumlike odor, produced as a side product in making phorone; -- called also xylite oil.
Xylo-  A combining form from Gr. xy`lon wood; as in xylogen, xylograph.
Xylobalsamum  The dried twigs of a Syrian tree (Balsamodendron Gileadense).
Xylocarpous  Bearing fruit which becomes hard or woody.
Xylocopa  A genus of hymenopterous insects including the carpenter. See Carpenter bee, under Carpenter.
Xylogen  Nascent wood; wood cells in a forming state.
Xylogen  Lignin.
Xylograph  An engraving on wood, or the impression from such an engraving; a print by xylography.
Xylographer  One who practices xylography.
Xylographic  Alt. of Xylographical
Xylographical  Of or pertaining to xylography, or wood engraving.
Xylography  The art of engraving on wood.
Xylography  The art of making prints from the natural grain of wood.
Xylography  A method pf printing in colors upon wood for purposes of house decoration.
Xyloid  Resembling wood; having the nature of wood.
Xyloidin  A substance resembling pyroxylin, obtained by the action of nitric acid on starch; -- called also nitramidin.
Xylol  Same as Xylene.
Xylonite  See Zylonite.
Xylophaga  A genus of marine bivalves which bore holes in wood. They are allied to Pholas.
Xylophagan  One of a tribe of beetles whose larvae bore or live in wood.
Xylophagan  Any species of Xylophaga.
Xylophagan  Any one of the Xylophagides.
Xylophagides  A tribe or family of dipterous flies whose larvae live in decayed wood. Some of the tropical species are very large.
Xylophagous  Eating, boring in, or destroying, wood; -- said especially of certain insect larvae, crustaceans, and mollusks.
Xylophagous  Of or pertaining to the genus Xylophaga.
Xylophilan  One of a tribe of beetles (Xylophili) whose larvae live on decayed wood.
Xylophilous  Of or pertaining to the xylophilans.
Xylophone  An instrument common among the Russians, Poles, and Tartars, consisting of a series of strips of wood or glass graduated in length to the musical scale, resting on belts of straw, and struck with two small hammers. Called in Germany strohfiedel, or straw fiddle.
Xylophone  An instrument to determine the vibrative properties of different kinds of wood.
Xyloplastic  Formed of wood pulp by molds; relating to casts made of wood pulp in molds.
Xylopyrography  The art or practice of burning pictures on wood with a hot iron; -- called also poker painting. See Poker picture, under Poker.
Xyloquinone  Any one of a group of quinone compounds obtained respectively by the oxidation of certain xylidine compounds. In general they are yellow crystalline substances.
Xylorcin  A derivative of xylene obtained as a white crystalline substance which on exposure in the air becomes red; -- called also betaorcin.
Xylostein  A glucoside found in the poisonous berries of a species of honeysuckle (Lonicera xylosteum), and extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance.
Xylotile  Same as Parkesine.
Xylotrya  A genus of marine bivalves closely allied to Teredo, and equally destructive to timber. One species (Xylotrya fimbriata) is very common on the Atlantic coast of the United States.
Xylyl  Any one of three metameric radicals which are characteristic respectively of the three xylenes.
Xylylene  Any one of three metameric radicals, CH2.C6H4.CH2, derived respectively from the three xylenes. Often used adjectively; as, xylylene alcohol.
Xyridaceous  Of or pertaining to a natural order (Xyrideae) of endogenous plants, of which Xyris is the type.
Xyris  A genus of endogenous herbs with grassy leaves and small yellow flowers in short, scaly-bracted spikes; yellow-eyed grass. There are about seventeen species in the Atlantic United States.
Xyst  Alt. of Xystus
Xystus  A long and open portico, for athletic exercises, as wrestling, running, etc., for use in winter or in stormy weather.
Xystarch  An office/ having the superintendence of the xyst.
Xyster  An instrument for scraping bones.
Ycleped  of Clepe
Y's  of Y
Yacare  A South American crocodilian (Jacare sclerops) resembling the alligator in size and habits. The eye orbits are connected together, and surrounded by prominent bony ridges. Called also spectacled alligator, and spectacled cayman.
Yacca  A West Indian name for two large timber trees (Podocarpus coriaceus, and P. Purdicanus) of the Yew family. The wood, which is much used, is pale brownish with darker streaks.
Yacht  A light and elegantly furnished vessel, used either for private parties of pleasure, or as a vessel of state to convey distinguished persons from one place to another; a seagoing vessel used only for pleasure trips, racing, etc.
Yacht  To manage a yacht; to voyage in a yacht.
Yachter  One engaged in sailing a jacht.
Yachting  Sailing for pleasure in a yacht.
Yachtman  See Yachtsman.
Yachtsmen  of Yachtsman
Yachtsman  One who owns or sails a yacht; a yachter.
Yaf  Gave. See Give.
Yaffingale  The yaffle.
Yaffle  The European green woodpecker (Picus, / Genius, viridis). It is noted for its loud laughlike note. Called also eccle, hewhole, highhoe, laughing bird, popinjay, rain bird, yaffil, yaffler, yaffingale, yappingale, yackel, and woodhack.
Yager  In the German army, one belonging to a body of light infantry armed with rifles, resembling the chasseur of the French army.
Yaguarundi  Same as Jaguarondi.
Yajur-Veda  See Veda.
Yak  A bovine mammal (Poephagus grunnies) native of the high plains of Central Asia. Its neck, the outer side of its legs, and its flanks, are covered with long, flowing, fine hair. Its tail is long and bushy, often white, and is valued as an ornament and for other purposes in India and China. There are several domesticated varieties, some of which lack the mane and the long hair on the flanks. Called also chauri gua, grunting cow, grunting ox, sarlac, sarlik, and sarluc.
Yakamilk  See Trumpeter, 3 (a).
Yakare  Same as Yacare.
Yakin  A large Asiatic antelope (Budorcas taxicolor) native of the higher parts of the Himalayas and other lofty mountains. Its head and neck resemble those of the ox, and its tail is like that of the goat. Called also budorcas.
Yakoots  (Ethnol.) A nomadic Mongolian tribe native of Northern Siberia, and supposed to be of Turkish stock. They are mainly pastoral in their habits.
Yaksha  A kind of demigod attendant on Kuvera, the god of wealth.
Yalah  The oil of the mahwa tree.
Yam  A large, esculent, farinaceous tuber of various climbing plants of the genus Dioscorea; also, the plants themselves. Mostly natives of warm climates. The plants have netted-veined, petioled leaves, and pods with three broad wings. The commonest species is D. sativa, but several others are cultivated.
Yama  The king of the infernal regions, corresponding to the Greek Pluto, and also the judge of departed souls. In later times he is more exclusively considered the dire judge of all, and the tormentor of the wicked. He is represented as of a green color, with red garments, having a crown on his head, his eyes inflamed, and sitting on a buffalo, with a club and noose in his hands.
Yamma  The llama.
Yamp  An umbelliferous plant (Carum Gairdneri); also, its small fleshy roots, which are eaten by the Indians from Idaho to California.
Yang  The cry of the wild goose; a honk.
Yang  To make the cry of the wild goose.
Yank  A jerk or twitch.
Yanked  of Yank
Yanking  of Yank
Yank  To twitch; to jerk.
Yank  An abbreviation of Yankee.
Yankee  A nickname for a native or citizen of New England, especially one descended from old New England stock; by extension, an inhabitant of the Northern States as distinguished from a Southerner; also, applied sometimes by foreigners to any inhabitant of the United States.
Yankee  Of or pertaining to a Yankee; characteristic of the Yankees.
Yankee-Doodle  The name of a tune adopted popularly as one of the national airs of the United States.
Yankee-Doodle  Humorously, a Yankee.
Yankeeism  A Yankee idiom, word, custom, or the like.
Yaourt  A fermented drink, or milk beer, made by the Turks.
Yap  To bark; to yelp.
Yap  A bark; a yelp.
Yapock  A South American aquatic opossum (Chironectes variegatus) found in Guiana and Brazil. Its hind feet are webbed, and its fore feet do not have an opposable thumb for climbing. Called also water opossum.
Yapon  Same as Yaupon.
Yarage  The power of moving, or being managed, at sea; -- said with reference to a ship.
Yard  A rod; a stick; a staff.
Yard  A branch; a twig.
Yard  A long piece of timber, as a rafter, etc.
Yard  A measure of length, equaling three feet, or thirty-six inches, being the standard of English and American measure.
Yard  The penis.
Yard  A long piece of timber, nearly cylindrical, tapering toward the ends, and designed to support and extend a square sail. A yard is usually hung by the center to the mast. See Illust. of Ship.
Yard  An inclosure; usually, a small inclosed place in front of, or around, a house or barn; as, a courtyard; a cowyard; a barnyard.
Yard  An inclosure within which any work or business is carried on; as, a dockyard; a shipyard.
Yard  To confine (cattle) to the yard; to shut up, or keep, in a yard; as, to yard cows.
Yardarm  Either half of a square-rigged vessel's yard, from the center or mast to the end.
Yardfuls  of Yardful
Yardful  As much as a yard will contain; enough to fill a yard.
Yardland  A measure of land of uncertain quantity, varying from fifteen to forty acres; a virgate.
Yardstick  A stick three feet, or a yard, in length, used as a measure of cloth, etc.
Yardwand  A yardstick.
Yare  Ready; dexterous; eager; lively; quick to move.
Yare  Soon.
Yarely  In a yare manner.
Yark  To yerk.
Yarke  Same as Saki.
Yarn  Spun wool; woolen thread; also, thread of other material, as of cotton, flax, hemp, or silk; material spun and prepared for use in weaving, knitting, manufacturing sewing thread, or the like.
Yarn  One of the threads of which the strands of a rope are composed.
Yarn  A story told by a sailor for the amusement of his companions; a story or tale; as, to spin a yarn.
Yarnen  Made of yarn; consisting of yarn.
Yarnut  See Yernut.
Yarr  To growl or snarl as a dog.
Yarrish  Having a rough, dry taste.
Yarrow  An American and European composite plant (Achillea Millefolium) with very finely dissected leaves and small white corymbed flowers. It has a strong, and somewhat aromatic, odor and taste, and is sometimes used in making beer, or is dried for smoking. Called also milfoil, and nosebleed.
Yarwhip  The European bar-tailed godwit; -- called also yardkeep, and yarwhelp. See Godwit.
Yataghan  A long knife, or short saber, common among Mohammedan nations, usually having a double curve, sometimes nearly straight.
Yate  A gate. See 1st Gate.
Yaud  See Yawd.
Yaul  See Yawl.
Yaulp  To yaup.
Yaup  To cry out like a child; to yelp.
Yaup  A cry of distress, rage, or the like, as the cry of a sickly bird, or of a child in pain.
Yaup  The blue titmouse.
Yauper  One who, or that which, yaups.
Yaupon  A shrub (Ilex Cassine) of the Holly family, native from Virginia to Florida. The smooth elliptical leaves are used as a substitute for tea, and were formerly used in preparing the black drink of the Indians of North Carolina. Called also South-Sea tea.
Yawed  of Yaw
Yawing  of Yaw
Yaw  To rise in blisters, breaking in white froth, as cane juice in the clarifiers in sugar works.
Yaw  To steer wild, or out of the line of her course; to deviate from her course, as when struck by a heavy sea; -- said of a ship.
Yaw  A movement of a vessel by which she temporarily alters her course; a deviation from a straight course in steering.
Yawd  A jade; an old horse or mare.
Yawl  A small ship's boat, usually rowed by four or six oars.
Yawl  To cry out like a dog or cat; to howl; to yell.
Yawl-rigged  Having two masts with fore-and-aft sails, but differing from a schooner in that the after mast is very small, and stepped as far aft as possible. See Illustration in Appendix.
Yawned  of Yawn
Yawning  of Yawn
Yawn  To open the mouth involuntarily through drowsiness, dullness, or fatigue; to gape; to oscitate.
Yawn  To open wide; to gape, as if to allow the entrance or exit of anything.
Yawn  To open the mouth, or to gape, through surprise or bewilderment.
Yawn  To be eager; to desire to swallow anything; to express desire by yawning; as, to yawn for fat livings.
Yawn  An involuntary act, excited by drowsiness, etc., consisting of a deep and long inspiration following several successive attempts at inspiration, the mouth, fauces, etc., being wide open.
Yawn  The act of opening wide, or of gaping.
Yawn  A chasm, mouth, or passageway.
Yawningly  In a yawning manner.
Yawp  See Yaup.
Yaws  A disease, occurring in the Antilles and in Africa, characterized by yellowish or reddish tumors, of a contagious character, which, in shape and appearance, often resemble currants, strawberries, or raspberries. There are several varieties of this disease, variously known as framboesia, pian, verrugas, and crab-yaws.
Yaw-weed  A low, shrubby, rubiaceous plant (Morinda Royoc) growing along the seacoast of the West Indies. It has small, white, odorous flowers.
Ybe  Been.
Ycleped  Called; named; -- obsolete, except in archaic or humorous writings.
Ydo  Done.
Ydrad  Dreaded.
Yen  of Ye
Yea  Yes; ay; a word expressing assent, or an affirmative, or an affirmative answer to a question, now superseded by yes. See Yes.
Yea  More than this; not only so, but; -- used to mark the addition of a more specific or more emphatic clause. Cf. Nay, adv., 2.
Yea  An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, a vote by yeas and nays.
Yead  Properly, a variant of the defective imperfect yode, but sometimes mistaken for a present. See the Note under Yede.
Yeaned  of Yean
Yeaning  of Yean
Yean  To bring forth young, as a goat or a sheep; to ean.
Yeanling  A lamb or a kid; an eanling.
Year  The time of the apparent revolution of the sun trough the ecliptic; the period occupied by the earth in making its revolution around the sun, called the astronomical year; also, a period more or less nearly agreeing with this, adopted by various nations as a measure of time, and called the civil year; as, the common lunar year of 354 days, still in use among the Mohammedans; the year of 360 days, etc. In common usage, the year consists of 365 days, and every fourth year (called bissextile, or leap year) of 366 days, a day being added to February on that year, on account of the excess above 365 days (see Bissextile).
Year  The time in which any planet completes a revolution about the sun; as, the year of Jupiter or of Saturn.
Year  Age, or old age; as, a man in years.
Yeara  The California poison oak (Rhus diversiloba). See under Poison, a.
Yearbook  A book published yearly; any annual report or summary of the statistics or facts of a year, designed to be used as a reference book; as, the Congregational Yearbook.
Yearbook  A book containing annual reports of cases adjudged in the courts of England.
Yeared  Containing years; having existed or continued many years; aged.
Yearling  An animal one year old, or in the second year of its age; -- applied chiefly to cattle, sheep, and horses.
Yearling  Being a year old.
Yearly  Happening, accruing, or coming every year; annual; as, a yearly income; a yearly feast.
Yearly  Lasting a year; as, a yearly plant.
Yearly  Accomplished in a year; as, the yearly circuit, or revolution, of the earth.
Yearly  Annually; once a year to year; as, blessings yearly bestowed.
Yearned  of Yearn
Yearning  of Yearn
Yearn  To pain; to grieve; to vex.
Yearn  To be pained or distressed; to grieve; to mourn.
Yearn  To curdle, as milk.
Yearn  To be filled with longing desire; to be harassed or rendered uneasy with longing, or feeling the want of a thing; to strain with emotions of affection or tenderness; to long; to be eager.
Yearnful  Desirous.
Yearningly  With yearning.
Yearnings  The maws, or stomachs, of young calves, used as a rennet for curdling milk.
Yearth  The earth.
Yeast  The foam, or troth (top yeast), or the sediment (bottom yeast), of beer or other in fermentation, which contains the yeast plant or its spores, and under certain conditions produces fermentation in saccharine or farinaceous substances; a preparation used for raising dough for bread or cakes, and making it light and puffy; barm; ferment.
Yeast  Spume, or foam, of water.
Yeast  A form of fungus which grows as indvidual rounded cells, rather than in a mycelium, and reproduces by budding; esp. members of the orders Endomycetales and Moniliales. Some fungi may grow both as a yeast or as a mycelium, depending on the conditions of growth.
Yeast-bitten  A term used of beer when the froth of the yeast has reentered the body of the beer.
Yeastiness  The quality or state of being yeasty, or frothy.
Yeasty  Frothy; foamy; spumy, like yeast.
Yedding  The song of a minstrel; hence, any song.
Yede  Went. See Yode.
Yeel  An eel.
Yeldhall  Guildhall.
Yeldrin  Alt. of Yeldrine
Yeldrine  The yellow-hammer; -- called also yeldrock, and yoldrin.
Yelk  Same as Yolk.
Yelled  of Yell
Yelling  of Yell
Yell  To cry out, or shriek, with a hideous noise; to cry or scream as with agony or horror.
Yell  To utter or declare with a yell; to proclaim in a loud tone.
Yell  A sharp, loud, hideous outcry.
Yellow  Being of a bright saffronlike color; of the color of gold or brass; having the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is between the orange and the green.
Yellow  A bright golden color, reflecting more light than any other except white; the color of that part of the spectrum which is between the orange and green.
Yellow  A yellow pigment.
Yellowed  of Yellow
Yellowing  of Yellow
Yellow  To make yellow; to cause to have a yellow tinge or color; to dye yellow.
Yellow  To become yellow or yellower.
Yellowammer  See Yellow-hammer.
Yellowbill  The American scoter.
Yellowbird  The American goldfinch, or thistle bird. See Goldfinch.
Yellowbird  The common yellow warbler; -- called also summer yellowbird. See Illust. of Yellow warbler, under Yellow, a.
Yellow-covered  Covered or bound in yellow paper.
Yellow-eyed  Having yellow eyes.
Yellowfin  A large squeteague.
Yellowfish  A rock trout (Pleurogrammus monopterygius) found on the coast of Alaska; -- called also striped fish, and Atka mackerel.
Yellow-golds  A certain plant, probably the yellow oxeye.
Yellowhammer  A common European finch (Emberiza citrinella). The color of the male is bright yellow on the breast, neck, and sides of the head, with the back yellow and brown, and the top of the head and the tail quills blackish. Called also yellow bunting, scribbling lark, and writing lark.
Yellowhammer  The flicker.
Yellowing  The act or process of making yellow.
Yellowish  Somewhat yellow; as, amber is of a yellowish color.
Yellowlegs  Any one of several species of long-legged sandpipers of the genus Totanus, in which the legs are bright yellow; -- called also stone snipe, tattler, telltale, yellowshanks; and yellowshins. See Tattler, 2.
Yellowness  The quality or state of being yellow; as, the yellowness of an orange.
Yellowness  Jealousy.
Yellowroot  Any one of several plants with yellow roots.
Yellowroot  See Xanthorhiza.
Yellowroot  Same as Orangeroot.
Yellows  A disease of the bile in horses, cattle, and sheep, causing yellowness of the eyes; jaundice.
Yellows  A disease of plants, esp. of peach trees, in which the leaves turn to a yellowish color; jeterus.
Yellows  A group of butterflies in which the predominating color is yellow. It includes the common small yellow butterflies. Called also redhorns, and sulphurs. See Sulphur.
Yellowseed  A kind of pepper grass (Lepidium campestre).
Yellowshanks  Alt. of Yellowshins
Yellowshins  See Yellolegs.
Yellowtail  Any one of several species of marine carangoid fishes of the genus Seriola; especially, the large California species (S. dorsalis) which sometimes weighs thirty or forty pounds, and is highly esteemed as a food fish; -- called also cavasina, and white salmon.
Yellowtail  The mademoiselle, or silver perch.
Yellowtail  The menhaden.
Yellowtail  The runner, 12.
Yellowtail  A California rockfish (Sebastodes flavidus).
Yellowtail  The sailor's choice (Diplodus rhomboides).
Yellowthroat  Any one of several species of American ground warblers of the genus Geothlypis, esp. the Maryland yellowthroat (G. trichas), which is a very common species.
Yellowtop  A kind of grass, perhaps a species of Agrostis.
Yellowwood  The wood of any one of several different kinds of trees; also, any one of the trees themselves. Among the trees so called are the Cladrastis tinctoria, an American leguminous tree; the several species of prickly ash (Xanthoxylum); the Australian Flindersia Oxleyana, a tree related to the mahogany; certain South African species of Podocarpus, trees related to the yew; the East Indian Podocarpus latifolia; and the true satinwood (Chloroxylon Swietenia). All these Old World trees furnish valuable timber.
Yellowwort  A European yellow-flowered, gentianaceous (Chlora perfoliata). The whole plant is intensely bitter, and is sometimes used as a tonic, and also in dyeing yellow.
Yelped  of Yelp
Yelping  of Yelp
Yelp  To boast.
Yelp  To utter a sharp, quick cry, as a hound; to bark shrilly with eagerness, pain, or fear; to yaup.
Yelp  A sharp, quick cry; a bark.
Yelper  An animal that yelps, or makes a yelping noise.
Yelper  The avocet; -- so called from its sharp, shrill cry.
Yelper  The tattler.
Yeman  A yeoman.
Yen  The unit of value and account in Japan. Since Japan's adoption of the gold standard, in 1897, the value of the yen has been about 50 cents. The yen is equal to 100 sen.
Yend  To throw; to cast.
Yenite  A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals; -- also called ilvaite.
Yeomen  of Yeoman
Yeoman  A common man, or one of the commonly of the first or most respectable class; a freeholder; a man free born.
Yeoman  A servant; a retainer.
Yeoman  A yeoman of the guard; also, a member of the yeomanry cavalry.
Yeoman  An interior officer under the boatswain, gunner, or carpenters, charged with the stowage, account, and distribution of the stores.
Yeomanlike  Resembling, or suitable to, a yeoman; yeomanly.
Yeomanly  Pertaining to a yeoman; becoming or suitable to, a yeoman; yeomanlike.
Yeomanry  The position or rank of a yeoman.
Yeomanry  The collective body of yeomen, or freeholders.
Yeomanry  The yeomanry cavalry.
Yeorling  The European yellow-hammer.
Yer  Ere; before.
Yerba  An herb; a plant.
Yerd  See 1st & 2d Yard.
Yerked  of Yerk
Yerking  of Yerk
Yerk  To throw or thrust with a sudden, smart movement; to kick or strike suddenly; to jerk.
Yerk  To strike or lash with a whip.
Yerk  To throw out the heels; to kick; to jerk.
Yerk  To move a quick, jerking motion.
Yerk  A sudden or quick thrust or motion; a jerk.
Yern  See 3d Yearn.
Yern  Eager; brisk; quick; active.
Yerne  Eagerly; briskly; quickly.
Yernut  An earthnut, or groundnut. See Groundnut (d).
Yerst  See Erst.
Yes  Ay; yea; -- a word which expresses affirmation or consent; -- opposed to no.
Yest  See Yeast.
Yester  Last; last past; next before; of or pertaining to yesterday.
Yesterday  The day last past; the day next before the present.
Yesterday  Fig.: A recent time; time not long past.
Yesterday  On the day last past; on the day preceding to-day; as, the affair took place yesterday.
Yestereve  Alt. of Yester-evening
Yester-evening  The evening of yesterday; the evening last past.
Yestermorn  Alt. of Yester-morning
Yester-morning  The morning of yesterday.
Yestern  Of or pertaining to yesterday; relating to the day last past.
Yesternight  The last night; the night last past.
Yesternight  On the last night.
Yesternoon  The noon of yesterday; the noon last past.
Yesterweek  The week last past; last week.
Yesteryear  The year last past; last year.
Yestreen  Yester-evening; yesternight; last night.
Yesty  See Yeasty.
Yet  Any one of several species of large marine gastropods belonging to the genus Yetus, or Cymba; a boat shell.
Yet  In addition; further; besides; over and above; still.
Yet  At the same time; by continuance from a former state; still.
Yet  Up to the present time; thus far; hitherto; until now; -- and with the negative, not yet, not up to the present time; not as soon as now; as, Is it time to go? Not yet. See As yet, under As, conj.
Yet  Before some future time; before the end; eventually; in time.
Yet  Even; -- used emphatically.
Yet  Nevertheless; notwithstanding; however.
Yeve  To give.
Yeven  Given.
Yew  See Yaw.
Yew  An evergreen tree (Taxus baccata) of Europe, allied to the pines, but having a peculiar berrylike fruit instead of a cone. It frequently grows in British churchyards.
Yew  The wood of the yew. It is light red in color, compact, fine-grained, and very elastic. It is preferred to all other kinds of wood for bows and whipstocks, the best for these purposes coming from Spain.
Yew  A bow for shooting, made of the yew.
Yew  Of or pertaining to yew trees; made of the wood of a yew tree; as, a yew whipstock.
Yewen  Made of yew; as, yewen bows.
Yex  To hiccough.
Yex  A hiccough.
Yezdegerdian  Of or pertaining to Yezdegerd, the last Sassanian monarch of Persia, who was overthrown by the Mohammedans; as, the Yezdegerdian era, which began on the 16th of June, a. d. 632. The era is still used by the Parsees.
Yezdi  Same as Izedi.
Yezidee  Alt. of Yezidi
Yezidi  Same as Izedi.
Yfere  Together. See Ifere.
Ygdrasyl  See in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.
Yghe  Eye.
Ygo  Gone.
Yground  p. p. of Grind.
Yholde  p. p. of Hold.
Yielded  of Yield
Yold  of Yield
Yielding  of Yield
Yield  To give in return for labor expended; to produce, as payment or interest on what is expended or invested; to pay; as, money at interest yields six or seven per cent.
Yield  To furnish; to afford; to render; to give forth.
Yield  To give up, as something that is claimed or demanded; to make over to one who has a claim or right; to resign; to surrender; to relinquish; as a city, an opinion, etc.
Yield  To admit to be true; to concede; to allow.
Yield  To permit; to grant; as, to yield passage.
Yield  To give a reward to; to bless.
Yield  To give up the contest; to submit; to surrender; to succumb.
Yield  To comply with; to assent; as, I yielded to his request.
Yield  To give way; to cease opposition; to be no longer a hindrance or an obstacle; as, men readily yield to the current of opinion, or to customs; the door yielded.
Yield  To give place, as inferior in rank or excellence; as, they will yield to us in nothing.
Yield  Amount yielded; product; -- applied especially to products resulting from growth or cultivation.
Yieldable  Disposed to yield or comply.
Yieldance  The act of producing; yield; as, the yieldance of the earth.
Yieldance  The act of yielding; concession.
Yielder  One who yields.
Yielding  Inclined to give way, or comply; flexible; compliant; accommodating; as, a yielding temper.
Yieldless  Without yielding; unyielding.
Yift  Gift.
Yin  A Chinese weight of 2/ pounds.
Yis  Yes.
Yit  Yet.
Yite  The European yellow-hammer.
Yive  To give.
Yle  Isle.
Yliche  Alt. of Ylike
Ylike  Like; alike.
Yllanraton  The agouara.
Ymaked  Made.
Ymel  Among.
Ynambu  A South American tinamou (Rhynchotus rufescens); -- called also perdiz grande, and rufous tinamou. See Illust. of Tinamou.
Ynough  Alt. of Ynow
Ynow  Enough.
Yockel  The yaffle.
Yode  Went; walked; proceeded.
Yodeled  of Yodle
Yodled  of Yodle
Yodeling  of Yodle
Yodling  of Yodle
Yodel  Alt. of Yodle
Yodle  To sing in a manner common among the Swiss and Tyrolese mountaineers, by suddenly changing from the head voice, or falsetto, to the chest voice, and the contrary; to warble.
Yodel  Alt. of Yodle
Yodle  A song sung by yodeling, as by the Swiss mountaineers.
Yodler  One who yodels.
Yoga  A species of asceticism among the Hindoos, which consists in a complete abstraction from all worldly objects, by which the votary expects to obtain union with the universal spirit, and to acquire superhuman faculties.
Yogi  A follower of the yoga philosophy; an ascetic.
Yoicks  A cry of encouragement to foxhounds.
Yoit  The European yellow-hammer.
Yojan  A measure of distance, varying from four to ten miles, but usually about five.
Yoke  A bar or frame of wood by which two oxen are joined at the heads or necks for working together.
Yoke  A frame or piece resembling a yoke, as in use or shape.
Yoke  A frame of wood fitted to a person's shoulders for carrying pails, etc., suspended on each side; as, a milkmaid's yoke.
Yoke  A frame worn on the neck of an animal, as a cow, a pig, a goose, to prevent passage through a fence.
Yoke  A frame or convex piece by which a bell is hung for ringing it. See Illust. of Bell.
Yoke  A crosspiece upon the head of a boat's rudder. To its ends lines are attached which lead forward so that the boat can be steered from amidships.
Yoke  A bent crosspiece connecting two other parts.
Yoke  A tie securing two timbers together, not used for part of a regular truss, but serving a temporary purpose, as to provide against unusual strain.
Yoke  A band shaped to fit the shoulders or the hips, and joined to the upper full edge of the waist or the skirt.
Yoke  Fig.: That which connects or binds; a chain; a link; a bond connection.
Yoke  A mark of servitude; hence, servitude; slavery; bondage; service.
Yoke  Two animals yoked together; a couple; a pair that work together.
Yoke  The quantity of land plowed in a day by a yoke of oxen.
Yoke  A portion of the working day; as, to work two yokes, that is, to work both portions of the day, or morning and afternoon.
Yoked  of Yoke
Yoking  of Yoke
Yoke  To put a yoke on; to join in or with a yoke; as, to yoke oxen, or pair of oxen.
Yoke  To couple; to join with another.
Yoke  To enslave; to bring into bondage; to restrain; to confine.
Yoke  To be joined or associated; to be intimately connected; to consort closely; to mate.
Yokeage  See Rokeage.
Yokefellow  An associate or companion in, or as in; a mate; a fellow; especially, a partner in marriage.
Yokel  A country bumpkin.
Yokelet  A small farm; -- so called as requiring but one yoke of oxen to till it.
Yokemate  Same as Yokefellow.
Yoke-toed  Having two toes in front and two behind, as the trogons and woodpeckers.
Yold  Yielded.
Yolden  Yielded.
Yolk  The yellow part of an egg; the vitellus.
Yolk  An oily secretion which naturally covers the wool of sheep.
Yoll  To yell.
Yon  At a distance, but within view; yonder.
Yon  Yonder.
Yoncopin  A local name in parts of the Mississippi Valley for the American lotus (Nelumbo lutea).
Yond  Furious; mad; angry; fierce.
Yond  Yonder.
Yonder  At a distance, but within view.
Yonder  Being at a distance within view, or conceived of as within view; that or those there; yon.
Yoni  The symbol under which Sakti, or the personification of the female power in nature, is worshiped. Cf. Lingam.
Yonker  A young fellow; a younker.
Yore  In time long past; in old time; long since.
Yorker  A tice.
Yorkshire  A county in the north of England.
York  The one of the three printed uses of England which was followed in the north. It was based on the Sarum use. See Use, n., 6.
Yot  To unite closely.
Yote  To pour water on; to soak in, or mix with, water.
You  The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed. See the Note under Ye.
Youl  To yell; to yowl.
Young  Not long born; still in the first part of life; not yet arrived at adolescence, maturity, or age; not old; juvenile; -- said of animals; as, a young child; a young man; a young fawn.
Young  Being in the first part, pr period, of growth; as, a young plant; a young tree.
Young  Having little experience; inexperienced; unpracticed; ignorant; weak.
Young  The offspring of animals, either a single animal or offspring collectively.
Youngger  One who is younger; an inferior in age; a junior.
Youngish  Somewhat young.
Youngling  A young person; a youth; also, any animal in its early life.
Youngling  Young; youthful.
Youngly  Like a young person or thing; young; youthful.
Youngly  In a young manner; in the period of youth; early in life.
Youngly  Ignorantly; weakly.
Youngness  The quality or state of being young.
Youngster  A young person; a youngling; a lad.
Youngth  Youth.
Youngthly  Pertaining to, or resembling, youth; youthful.
Younker  A young person; a stripling; a yonker.
Youpon  Same as Yaupon.
Your  The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you.
Yours  See the Note under Your.
Yourselves  of Yourself
Yourself  An emphasized or reflexive form of the pronoun of the second person; -- used as a subject commonly with you; as, you yourself shall see it; also, alone in the predicate, either in the nominative or objective case; as, you have injured yourself.
Youths  of Youth
Youth  of Youth
Youth  The quality or state of being young; youthfulness; juvenility.
Youth  The part of life that succeeds to childhood; the period of existence preceding maturity or age; the whole early part of life, from childhood, or, sometimes, from infancy, to manhood.
Youth  A young person; especially, a young man.
Youth  Young persons, collectively.
Youthful  Not yet mature or aged; young.
Youthful  Also used figuratively.
Youthful  Of or pertaining to the early part of life; suitable to early life; as, youthful days; youthful sports.
Youthful  Fresh; vigorous, as in youth.
Youthhood  The quality or state of being a youth; the period of youth.
Youthly  Young; youthful.
Youthsome  Youthful.
Youthy  Young.
Youze  The cheetah.
Yow  You.
Yowe  A ewe.
Yowl  To utter a loud, long, and mournful cry, as a dog; to howl; to yell.
Yowl  A loud, protracted, and mournful cry, as that of a dog; a howl.
Yowley  The European yellow-hammer.
Yox  See Yex.
Ypight  See Pight.
Ypocras  Hippocras.
Ypres  Fine bobbin lace made at Ypres in Belgium, usually exactly like Valenciennes lace.
Ypsiliform  Resembling the / in appearance; -- said of the germinal spot in the ripe egg at one of the stages of fecundation.
Ypsiloid  In the form of the letter Y; Y-shaped.
Yraft  Bereft.
Yren  Iron.
Yronne  Run.
Ysame  Together.
Ythrowe  p. p. of Throw.
Ytterbic  Pertaining to, or derived from, ytterbium; containing ytterbium.
Ytterbium  A rare element of the boron group, sometimes associated with yttrium or other related elements, as in euxenite and gadolinite. Symbol Yb; provisional atomic weight 173.2. Cf. Yttrium.
Yttria  The oxide, Y2O3, or earth, of yttrium.
Yttric  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, yttrium.
Yttriferous  Bearing or containing yttrium or the allied elements; as, gadolinite is one of the yttriferous minerals.
Yttrious  Same as Yttric.
Yttrium  A rare metallic element of the boron-aluminium group, found in gadolinite and other rare minerals, and extracted as a dark gray powder. Symbol Y. Atomic weight, 89.
Yttro-cerite  A mineral of a violet-blue color, inclining to gray and white. It is a hydrous fluoride of cerium, yttrium, and calcium.
Yttro-columbite  Alt. of Yttro-tantalite
Yttro-tantalite  A tantalate of uranium, yttrium, and calcium, of a brown or black color.
Yucca  See Flicker, n., 2.
Yucca  A genus of American liliaceous, sometimes arborescent, plants having long, pointed, and often rigid, leaves at the top of a more or less woody stem, and bearing a large panicle of showy white blossoms.
Yuck  To itch.
Yuck  To scratch.
Yuckel  Same as Yockel.
Yuen  The crowned gibbon (Hylobates pileatus), native of Siam, Southern China, and the Island of Hainan. It is entirely arboreal in its habits, and has very long arms. the males are dark brown or blackish, with a caplike mass of long dark hair, and usually with a white band around the face. The females are yellowish white, with a dark spot on the breast and another on the crown. Called also wooyen, and wooyen ape.
Yufts  Russia leather.
Yug  Alt. of Yuga
Yuga  Any one of the four ages, Krita, or Satya, Treta, Dwapara, and Kali, into which the Hindoos divide the duration or existence of the world.
Yuke  Same as Yuck.
Yulan  A species of Magnolia (M. conspicua) with large white blossoms that open before the leaves. See the Note under Magnolia.
Yule  Christmas or Christmastide; the feast of the Nativity of our Savior.
Yuletide  Christmas time; Christmastide; the season of Christmas.
Yumas  A tribe of Indians native of Arizona and the adjacent parts of Mexico and California. They are agricultural, and cultivate corn, wheat, barley, melons, etc.
Yunx  A genus of birds comprising the wrynecks.
Yupon  Same as Yaupon.
Yux  See Yex, n.
Yvel  Evil; ill.
Ywar  Aware; wary.
Ywis  Certainly; most likely; truly; probably.
Zabaism  Alt. of Zabism
Zabism  See Sabianism.
Zabian  See Sabian.
Zacco  See Zocco.
Zachun  An oil pressed by the Arabs from the fruit of a small thorny tree (Balanites Aegyptiaca), and sold to piligrims for a healing ointment.
Zaerthe  Same as Z/rthe.
Zaffer  A pigment obtained, usually by roasting cobalt glance with sand or quartz, as a dark earthy powder. It consists of crude cobalt oxide, or of an impure cobalt arseniate. It is used in porcelain painting, and in enameling pottery, to produce a blue color, and is often confounded with smalt, from which, however, it is distinct, as it contains no potash. The name is often loosely applied to mixtures of zaffer proper with silica, or oxides of iron, manganese, etc.
Zaim  A Turkish chief who supports a mounted militia bearing the same name.
Zaimet  A district from which a Zaim draws his revenue.
Zain  A horse of a dark color, neither gray nor white, and having no spots.
Zalambdodont  Of or pertaining to a tribe (Zalambdodonta) of Insectivora in which the molar teeth have but one V-shaped ridge.
Zalambdodont  One of the Zalambdodonta. The tenrec, solenodon, and golden moles are examples.
Zamang  An immense leguminous tree (Pithecolobium Saman) of Venezuela. Its branches form a hemispherical mass, often one hundred and eighty feet across. The sweet pulpy pods are used commonly for feeding cattle. Also called rain tree.
Zambos  of Zambo
Zambo  The child of a mulatto and a negro; also, the child of an Indian and a negro; colloquially or humorously, a negro; a sambo.
Zamia  A genus of cycadaceous plants, having the appearance of low palms, but with exogenous wood. See Coontie, and Illust. of Strobile.
Zamindar  A landowner; also, a collector of land revenue; now, usually, a kind of feudatory recognized as an actual proprietor so long as he pays to the government a certain fixed revenue.
Zamindary  Alt. of Zamindari
Zamindari  The jurisdiction of a zamindar; the land possessed by a zamindar.
Zamite  A fossil cycad of the genus Zamia.
Zamouse  A West African buffalo (Bubalus brachyceros) having short horns depressed at the base, and large ears fringed internally with three rows of long hairs. It is destitute of a dewlap. Called also short-horned buffalo, and bush cow.
Zampogna  A sort of bagpipe formerly in use among Italian peasants. It is now almost obsolete.
Zander  A European pike perch (Stizostedion lucioperca) allied to the wall-eye; -- called also sandari, sander, sannat, schill, and zant.
Zandmole  The sand mole.
Zante  See Zantewood.
Zante  A kind of seedless grape or raisin; -- so called from Zante, one of the Ionian Islands.
Zantewood  A yellow dyewood; fustet; -- called also zante, and zante fustic. See Fustet, and the Note under Fustic.
Zantewood  Satinwood (Chloroxylon Swietenia).
Zantiot  A native or inhabitant of Zante, one of the Ionian Islands.
Zanies  of Zany
Zany  A merry-andrew; a buffoon.
Zany  To mimic.
Zanyism  State or character of a zany; buffoonery.
Zaphara  Zaffer.
Zaphrentis  An extinct genus of cyathophylloid corals common in the Paleozoic formations. It is cup-shaped with numerous septa, and with a deep pit in one side of the cup.
Zapotilla  See Sapodilla.
Zaptiah  A Turkish policeman.
Zarathustrian  Alt. of Zarathustric
Zarathustric  Of or pertaining to Zarathustra, or Zoroaster; Zoroastrian.
Zarathustrism  See Zoroastrianism.
Zaratite  A hydrous carbonate of nickel occurring as an emerald-green incrustation on chromite; -- called also emerald nickel.
Zareba  An improvised stockade; especially, one made of thorn bushes, etc.
Zarnich  Native sulphide of arsenic, including sandarach, or realgar, and orpiment.
Zarthe  A European bream (Abramis vimba).
Zati  A species of macaque (Macacus pileatus) native of India and Ceylon. It has a crown of long erect hair, and tuft of radiating hairs on the back of the head. Called also capped macaque.
Zauschneria  A genus of flowering plants. Zauschneria Californica is a suffrutescent perennial, with showy red flowers much resembling those of the garden fuchsia.
Zax  A tool for trimming and puncturing roofing slates.
Zayat  A public shed, or portico, for travelers, worshipers, etc.
Zea  A genus of large grasses of which the Indian corn (Zea Mays) is the only species known. Its origin is not yet ascertained. See Maize.
Zeal  Passionate ardor in the pursuit of anything; eagerness in favor of a person or cause; ardent and active interest; engagedness; enthusiasm; fervor.
Zeal  A zealot.
Zeal  To be zealous.
Zealant  One who is zealous; a zealot; an enthusiast.
Zealed  Full of zeal; characterized by zeal.
Zealful  Full of zeal.
Zealless  Wanting zeal.
Zealot  One who is zealous; one who engages warmly in any cause, and pursues his object with earnestness and ardor; especially, one who is overzealous, or carried away by his zeal; one absorbed in devotion to anything; an enthusiast; a fanatical partisan.
Zealotical  Like, or suitable to, a zealot; ardently zealous.
Zealotism  The character or conduct of a zealot; zealotry.
Zealotist  A zealot.
Zealotry  The character and behavior of a zealot; excess of zeal; fanatical devotion to a cause.
Zealous  Filled with, or characterized by, zeal; warmly engaged, or ardent, in behalf of an object.
Zealous  Filled with religious zeal.
Zebec  See Xebec.
Zebra  Either one of two species of South African wild horses remarkable for having the body white or yellowish white, and conspicuously marked with dark brown or brackish bands.
Zebrawood  A kind of cabinet wood having beautiful black, brown, and whitish stripes, the timber of a tropical American tree (Connarus Guianensis).
Zebrawood  The wood of a small West Indian myrtaceous tree (Eugenia fragrans).
Zebrawood  The wood of an East Indian tree of the genus Guettarda.
Zebrine  Pertaining to, or resembling, the zebra.
Zebu  A bovine mammal (Ros Indicus) extensively domesticated in India, China, the East Indies, and East Africa. It usually has short horns, large pendulous ears, slender legs, a large dewlap, and a large, prominent hump over the shoulders; but these characters vary in different domestic breeds, which range in size from that of the common ox to that of a large mastiff.
Zebub  A large noxious fly of Abyssinia, which like the tsetse fly, is destructive to cattle.
Zechin  See Sequin.
Zechstein  The upper division of the Permian (Dyas) of Europe. The prevailing rock is a magnesian limestone.
Zed  The letter Z; -- called also zee, and formerly izzard.
Zedoary  A medicinal substance obtained in the East Indies, having a fragrant smell, and a warm, bitter, aromatic taste. It is used in medicine as a stimulant.
Zeekoe  A hippopotamus.
Zehner  An Austrian silver coin equal to ten kreutzers, or about five cents.
Zein  A nitrogenous substance of the nature of gluten, obtained from the seeds of Indian corn (Zea) as a soft, yellowish, amorphous substance.
Zemindar  Same as Zamindar.
Zemindary  Alt. of Zemindari
Zemindari  Same as Zamindary.
Zemni  The blind mole rat (Spalax typhlus), native of Eastern Europe and Asia. Its eyes and ears are rudimentary, and its fur is soft and brownish, more or less tinged with gray. It constructs extensive burrows.
Zenana  The part of a dwelling appropriated to women.
Zend  Properly, the translation and exposition in the Huzv/resh, or literary Pehlevi, language, of the Avesta, the Zoroastrian sacred writings; as commonly used, the language (an ancient Persian dialect) in which the Avesta is written.
Zend-Avesta  The sacred writings of the ancient Persian religion, attributed to Zoroaster, but chiefly of a later date.
Zendik  An atheist or unbeliever; -- name given in the East to those charged with disbelief of any revealed religion, or accused of magical heresies.
Zenick  A South African burrowing mammal (Suricata tetradactyla), allied to the civets. It is grayish brown, with yellowish transverse stripes on the back. Called also suricat.
Zenik  See Zenick.
Zenith  That point in the visible celestial hemisphere which is vertical to the spectator; the point of the heavens directly overhead; -- opposed to nadir.
Zenith  hence, figuratively, the point of culmination; the greatest height; the height of success or prosperity.
Zenithal  Of or pertaining to the zenith.
Zeolite  A term now used to designate any one of a family of minerals, hydrous silicates of alumina, with lime, soda, potash, or rarely baryta. Here are included natrolite, stilbite, analcime, chabazite, thomsonite, heulandite, and others. These species occur of secondary origin in the cavities of amygdaloid, basalt, and lava, also, less frequently, in granite and gneiss. So called because many of these species intumesce before the blowpipe.
Zeolitic  Of or pertaining to a zeolite; consisting of, or resembling, a zeolite.
Zeolitiform  Having the form of a zeolite.
Zephyr  The west wind; poetically, any soft, gentle breeze.
Zephyrus  The west wind, or zephyr; -- usually personified, and made the most mild and gentle of all the sylvan deities.
Zequin  See Sequin.
Zerda  The fennec.
Zeriba  Same as Zareba.
Zeros  of Zero
Zeroes  of Zero
Zero  A cipher; nothing; naught.
Zero  The point from which the graduation of a scale, as of a thermometer, commences.
Zero  Fig.: The lowest point; the point of exhaustion; as, his patience had nearly reached zero.
Zest  A piece of orange or lemon peel, or the aromatic oil which may be squeezed from such peel, used to give flavor to liquor, etc.
Zest  Hence, something that gives or enhances a pleasant taste, or the taste itself; an appetizer; also, keen enjoyment; relish; gusto.
Zest  The woody, thick skin inclosing the kernel of a walnut.
Zested  of Zest
Zesting  of Zest
Zest  To cut into thin slips, as the peel of an orange, lemon, etc.; to squeeze, as peel, over the surface of anything.
Zest  To give a relish or flavor to; to heighten the taste or relish of; as, to zest wine.
Zeta  A Greek letter corresponding to our z.
Zetetic  Seeking; proceeding by inquiry.
Zetetic  A seeker; -- a name adopted by some of the Pyrrhonists.
Zetetics  A branch of algebra which relates to the direct search for unknown quantities.
Zeuglodon  A genus of extinct Eocene whales, remains of which have been found in the Gulf States. The species had very long and slender bodies and broad serrated teeth. See Phocodontia.
Zeuglodont  Any species of Zeuglodonta.
Zeuglodonta  Same as Phocodontia.
Zeugma  A figure by which an adjective or verb, which agrees with a nearer word, is, by way of supplement, referred also to another more remote; as, "hic illius arma, hic currus fuit;" where fuit, which agrees directly with currus, is referred also to arma.
Zeugmatic  Of or pertaining to zeugma; characterized by zeugma.
Zeugobranchiata  Same as Zygobranchia.
Zeus  The chief deity of the Greeks, and ruler of the upper world (cf. Hades). He was identified with Jupiter.
Zeuzerian  Any one of a group of bombycid moths of which the genus Zeuzera is the type. Some of these moths are of large size. The goat moth is an example.
Zeylanite  See Ceylanite.
Zibet  Alt. of Zibeth
Zibeth  A carnivorous mammal (Viverra zibetha) closely allied to the civet, from which it differs in having the spots on the body less distinct, the throat whiter, and the black rings on the tail more numerous.
Ziega  Curd produced from milk by adding acetic acid, after rennet has ceased to cause coagulation.
Zietrisikite  A mineral wax, vert similar to ozocerite. It is found at Zietrisika, Moldavia, whence its name.
Zif  The second month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding to our May.
Zigger  Alt. of Zighyr
Zighyr  Same as Sicker.
Zigzag  Something that has short turns or angles.
Zigzag  A molding running in a zigzag line; a chevron, or series of chevrons. See Illust. of Chevron, 3.
Zigzag  See Boyau.
Zigzag  Having short, sharp turns; running this way and that in an onward course.
Zigzagged  of Zigzag
Zigzagging  of Zigzag
Zigzag  To form with short turns.
Zigzag  To move in a zigzag manner; also, to have a zigzag shape.
Zigzaggery  The quality or state of being zigzag; crookedness.
Zigzaggy  Having sharp turns.
Zilla  A low, thorny, suffrutescent, crucifeous plant (Zilla myagroides) found in the deserts of Egypt. Its leaves are boiled in water, and eaten, by the Arabs.
Zillah  A district or local division, as of a province.
Zimb  A large, venomous, two-winged fly, native of Abyssinia. It is allied to the tsetse fly, and, like the latter, is destructive to cattle.
Ziment-water  A kind of water found in copper mines; water impregnated with copper.
Zinc  An abundant element of the magnesium-cadmium group, extracted principally from the minerals zinc blende, smithsonite, calamine, and franklinite, as an easily fusible bluish white metal, which is malleable, especially when heated. It is not easily oxidized in moist air, and hence is used for sheeting, coating galvanized iron, etc. It is used in making brass, britannia, and other alloys, and is also largely consumed in electric batteries. Symbol Zn. Atomic weight 64.9.
Zincked  of Zinc
Zinced  of Zinc
Zincking  of Zinc
Zincing  of Zinc
Zinc  To coat with zinc; to galvanize.
Zincane  Zinc chloride.
Zincic  Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zinc; zincous.
Zincide  A binary compound of zinc.
Zinciferous  Containing or affording zinc.
Zincification  The act or process of applying zinc; the condition of being zincified, or covered with zinc; galvanization.
Zincify  To coat or impregnate with zinc.
Zincite  Native zinc oxide; a brittle, translucent mineral, of an orange-red color; -- called also red zinc ore, and red oxide of zinc.
Zincking  Alt. of Zincing
Zincing  The act or process of applying zinc; galvanization.
Zincky  Pertaining to zinc, or having its appearance.
Zinco-  A combining form from zinc; in chemistry, designating zinc as an element of certain double compounds. Also used adjectively.
Zincode  The positive electrode of an electrolytic cell; anode.
Zincographer  An engraver on zinc.
Zincongraphic  Alt. of Zincongraphical
Zincongraphical  Of or pertaining to zincography; as, zincographic processes.
Zincography  The art or process of engraving or etching on zinc, in which the design is left in relief in the style of a wood cut, the rest of the ground being eaten away by acid.
Zincoid  Pertaining to, or resembling, zinc; -- said of the electricity of the zincous plate in connection with a copper plate in a voltaic circle; also, designating the positive pole.
Zinco-polar  Electrically polarized like the surface of the zinc presented to the acid in a battery, which has zincous affinity.
Zincous  Of, pertaining to, or containing, zinc; zincic; as, zincous salts.
Zincous  Hence, formerly, basic, basylous, as opposed to chlorous.
Zincous  Of or pertaining to the positive pole of a galvanic battery; electro-positive.
Zingari  of Zingaro
Zingaro  A gypsy.
Zingel  A small, edible, freshwater European perch (Aspro zingel), having a round, elongated body and prominent snout.
Zingiberaceous  Of or pertaining to ginger, or to a tribe (Zingibereae) of endogenous plants of the order Scitamineae. See Scitamineous.
Zink  See Zinc.
Zinkenite  A steel-gray metallic mineral, a sulphide of antimony and lead.
Zinky  See Zincky.
Zinnia  Any plant of the composite genus Zinnia, Mexican herbs with opposite leaves and large gay-colored blossoms. Zinnia elegans is the commonest species in cultivation.
Zinnwaldite  A kind of mica containing lithium, often associated with tin ore.
Zinsang  The delundung.
Zinziberaceous  Same as Zingiberaceous.
Zion  A hill in Jerusalem, which, after the capture of that city by the Israelites, became the royal residence of David and his successors.
Zion  Hence, the theocracy, or church of God.
Zion  The heavenly Jerusalem; heaven.
Ziphioid  See Xiphioid.
Zirco-  A combining form (also used adjectively) designating zirconium as an element of certain double compounds; zircono-; as in zircofluoric acid, sodium zircofluoride.
Zircofluoride  A double fluoride of zirconium and hydrogen, or some other positive element or radical; as, zircofluoride of sodium.
Zircon  A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually of a brown or gray color. It consists of silica and zirconia. A red variety, used as a gem, is called hyacinth. Colorless, pale-yellow or smoky-brown varieties from Ceylon are called jargon.
Zircona  Zirconia.
Zirconate  A salt of zirconic acid.
Zirconia  The oxide of zirconium, obtained as a white powder, and possessing both acid and basic properties. On account of its infusibility, and brilliant luminosity when incandescent, it is used as an ingredient of sticks for the Drummomd light.
Zirconic  Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zirconium; as, zirconic oxide; zirconic compounds.
Zirconium  A rare element of the carbon-silicon group, intermediate between the metals and nonmetals, obtained from the mineral zircon as a dark sooty powder, or as a gray metallic crystalline substance. Symbol Zr. Atomic weight, 90.4.
Zircono  See Zirco-.
Zirconoid  A double eight-sided pyramid, a form common with tetragonal crystals; -- so called because this form often occurs in crystals of zircon.
Zither  An instrument of music used in Austria and Germany. It has from thirty to forty wires strung across a shallow sounding-board, which lies horizontally on a table before the performer, who uses both hands in playing on it. [Not to be confounded with the old lute-shaped cittern, or cithern.]
Zittern  See Cittern.
Zizania  A genus of grasses including Indian rice. See Indian rice, under Rice.
Zizel  The suslik.
Zoanthacea  A suborder of Actinaria, including Zoanthus and allied genera, which are permanently attached by their bases.
Zoantharia  Same as Anthozoa.
Zoantharian  Of or pertaining to the Zoantharia.
Zoantharian  One of the Anthozoa.
Zoanthodeme  The zooids of a compound anthozoan, collectively.
Zoanthoid  Of or pertaining to the Zoanthacea.
Zoanthropy  A kind of monomania in which the patient believes himself transformed into one of the lower animals.
Zoanthus  A genus of Actinaria, including numerous species, found mostly in tropical seas. The zooids or polyps resemble small, elongated actinias united together at their bases by fleshy stolons, and thus forming extensive groups. The tentacles are small and bright colored.
Zobo  A kind of domestic cattle reared in Asia for its flesh and milk. It is supposed to be a hybrid between the zebu and the yak.
Zocle  Same as Socle.
Zocco  Alt. of Zoccolo
Zoccolo  Same as Socle.
Zodiac  An imaginary belt in the heavens, 16 or 18 broad, in the middle of which is the ecliptic, or sun's path. It comprises the twelve constellations, which one constituted, and from which were named, the twelve signs of the zodiac.
Zodiac  A figure representing the signs, symbols, and constellations of the zodiac.
Zodiac  A girdle; a belt.
Zodiacal  Of or pertaining to the zodiac; situated within the zodiac; as, the zodiacal planets.
Zoea  A peculiar larval stage of certain decapod Crustacea, especially of crabs and certain Anomura.
Zoetrope  An optical toy, in which figures made to revolve on the inside of a cylinder, and viewed through slits in its circumference, appear like a single figure passing through a series of natural motions as if animated or mechanically moved.
Zohar  A Jewish cabalistic book attributed by tradition to Rabbi Simon ben Yochi, who lived about the end of the 1st century, a. d. Modern critics believe it to be a compilation of the 13th century.
Zoic  Of or pertaining to animals, or animal life.
Zoide  See Meride.
Zoilean  Having the characteristic of Zoilus, a bitter, envious, unjust critic, who lived about 270 years before Christ.
Zoilism  Resemblance to Zoilus in style or manner; carping criticism; detraction.
Zoisite  A grayish or whitish mineral occurring in orthorhombic, prismatic crystals, also in columnar masses. It is a silicate of alumina and lime, and is allied to epidote.
Zokor  An Asiatic burrowing rodent (Siphneus aspalax) resembling the mole rat. It is native of the Altai Mountains.
Zollverein  Literally, a customs union; specifically, applied to the several customs unions successively formed under the leadership of Prussia among certain German states for establishing liberty of commerce among themselves and common tariff on imports, exports, and transit.
Zomboruk  See Zumbooruk.
Zonae  of Zona
Zona  A zone or band; a layer.
Zonal  Of or pertaining to a zone; having the form of a zone or zones.
Zonar  A belt or girdle which the Christians and Jews of the Levant were obliged to wear to distinguish them from Mohammedans.
Zonaria  A division of Mammalia in which the placenta is zonelike.
Zonate  Divided by parallel planes; as, zonate tetraspores, found in certain red algae.
Zone  A girdle; a cincture.
Zone  One of the five great divisions of the earth, with respect to latitude and temperature.
Zone  The portion of the surface of a sphere included between two parallel planes; the portion of a surface of revolution included between two planes perpendicular to the axis.
Zone  A band or stripe extending around a body.
Zone  A band or area of growth encircling anything; as, a zone of evergreens on a mountain; the zone of animal or vegetable life in the ocean around an island or a continent; the Alpine zone, that part of mountains which is above the limit of tree growth.
Zone  A series of planes having mutually parallel intersections.
Zone  Circuit; circumference.
Zone  To girdle; to encircle.
Zoned  Wearing a zone, or girdle.
Zoned  Having zones, or concentric bands; striped.
Zoned  Zonate.
Zoneless  Not having a zone; ungirded.
Zonnar  See Zonar.
Zonular  Of or pertaining to a zone; zone-shaped.
Zonule  A little zone, or girdle.
Zonulet  A zonule.
Zonure  Any one of several of South African lizards of the genus Zonura, common in rocky situations.
Zoo-  A combining form from Gr. zwo^,n an animal, as in zoogenic, zoology, etc.
Zoochemical  Pertaining to zoochemistry.
Zoochemistry  Animal chemistry; particularly, the description of the chemical compounds entering into the composition of the animal body, in distinction from biochemistry.
Zoochemy  Animal chemistry; zoochemistry.
Zoochlorella  One of the small green granulelike bodies found in the interior of certain stentors, hydras, and other invertebrates.
Zoocyst  A cyst formed by certain Protozoa and unicellular plants which the contents divide into a large number of granules, each of which becomes a germ.
Zoocytia  of Zoocytium
Zoocytium  The common support, often branched, of certain species of social Infusoria.
Zoodendria  of Zoodendrium
Zoodendrium  The branched, and often treelike, support of the colonies of certain Infusoria.
Zooecia  of Zooecium
Zooecium  One of the cells or tubes which inclose the feeling zooids of Bryozoa. See Illust. of Sea Moss.
Zooerythrine  A peculiar organic red coloring matter found in the feathers of various birds.
Zoogamous  Of or pertaining zoogamy.
Zoogamy  The sexual reproduction of animals.
Zoogenic  Of or pertaining to zoogeny, animal production.
Zoogeny  Alt. of Zoogony
Zoogony  The doctrine of the formation of living beings.
Zoogeography  The study or description of the geographical distribution of animals.
Zoogeographical  Of or pertaining to zoography.
Zoogloea  A colony or mass of bacteria imbedded in a viscous gelatinous substance. The zoogloea is characteristic of a transitory stage through which rapidly multiplying bacteria pass in the course of their evolution. Also used adjectively.
Zoographer  One who describes animals, their forms and habits.
Zoographic  Alt. of Zoographical
Zoographical  Of or pertaining to the description of animals.
Zoographist  A zoographer.
Zoography  A description of animals, their forms and habits.
Zooid  Pertaining to, or resembling, an animal.
Zooid  An organic body or cell having locomotion, as a spermatic cell or spermatozooid.
Zooid  An animal in one of its inferior stages of development, as one of the intermediate forms in alternate generation.
Zooid  One of the individual animals in a composite group, as of Anthozoa, Hydroidea, and Bryozoa; -- sometimes restricted to those individuals in which the mouth and digestive organs are not developed.
Zooidal  Of or pertaining to a zooid; as, a zooidal form.
Zoolatry  The worship of animals.
Zoologer  A zoologist.
Zoological  Of or pertaining to zoology, or the science of animals.
Zoologically  In a zoological manner; according to the principles of zoology.
Zoologist  One who is well versed in zoology.
Zoologies  of Zoology
Zoology  That part of biology which relates to the animal kingdom, including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct.
Zoology  A treatise on this science.
Zoomelanin  A pigment giving the black color to the feathers of many birds.
Zoomorphic  Of or pertaining to zoomorphism.
Zoomorphism  The transformation of men into beasts.
Zoomorphism  The quality of representing or using animal forms; as, zoomorphism in ornament.
Zoomorphism  The representation of God, or of gods, in the form, or with the attributes, of the lower animals.
Zoa  of Zoon
Zoon  An animal which is the sole product of a single egg; -- opposed to zooid.
Zoon  Any one of the perfectly developed individuals of a compound animal.
Zoonic  Of or pertaining to animals; obtained from animal substances.
Zoonite  One of the segments of the body of an articulate animal.
Zoonite  One of the theoretic transverse divisions of any segmented animal.
Zoonomy  The laws of animal life, or the science which treats of the phenomena of animal life, their causes and relations.
Zoonule  Same as Zoonite.
Zoopathology  Animal pathology.
Zoophaga  An artificial group comprising various carnivorous and insectivorous animals.
Zoophagan  A animal that feeds on animal food.
Zoophagous  Feeding on animals.
Zoophilist  A lover of animals.
Zoophily  Love of animals.
Zoophite  A zoophyte.
Zoophoric  Bearing or supporting the figure of an animal; as, a zoophoric column.
Zoophorous  The part between the architrave and cornice; the frieze; -- so called from the figures of animals carved upon it.
Zoophyta  An extensive artificial and heterogeneous group of animals, formerly adopted by many zoologists. It included the c/lenterates, echinoderms, sponges, Bryozoa, Protozoa, etc.
Zoophyte  Any one of numerous species of invertebrate animals which more or less resemble plants in appearance, or mode of growth, as the corals, gorgonians, sea anemones, hydroids, bryozoans, sponges, etc., especially any of those that form compound colonies having a branched or treelike form, as many corals and hydroids.
Zoophyte  Any one of the Zoophyta.
Zoophytic  Alt. of Zoophytical
Zoophytical  Of or pertaining to zoophytes.
Zoophytoid  Pertaining to, or resembling, a zoophyte.
Zoophytological  Of or pertaining to zoophytology; as, zoophytological observations.
Zoophytology  The natural history zoophytes.
Zoopraxiscope  An instrument similar to, or the same as, the, the phenakistoscope, by means of which pictures projected upon a screen are made to exhibit the natural movements of animals, and the like.
Zoopsychology  Animal psychology.
Zoosperm  One of the spermatic particles; spermatozoid.
Zoosporangium  A spore, or conceptacle containing zoospores.
Zoospore  A spore provided with one or more slender cilia, by the vibration of which it swims in the water. Zoospores are produced by many green, and by some olive-brown, algae. In certain species they are divided into the larger macrozoospores and the smaller microzoospores. Called also sporozoid, and swarmspore.
Zoospore  See Swarmspore.
Zoosporic  Of or pertaining to zoospores; of the nature of zoospores.
Zootic  Containing the remains of organized bodies; -- said of rock or soil.
Zootomical  Of or pertaining to zootomy.
Zootomist  One who dissects animals, or is skilled in zootomy.
Zootomy  The dissection or the anatomy of animals; -- distinguished from androtomy.
Zootrophic  Of or pertaining to the nourishment of animals.
Zoozoo  The wood pigeon.
Zope  A European fresh-water bream (Abramis ballerus).
Zopilote  The urubu, or American black vulture.
Zoril  Same as Zorilla.
Zorilla  Either one of two species of small African carnivores of the genus Ictonyx allied to the weasels and skunks.
Zoroastrian  Of or pertaining to Zoroaster, or his religious system.
Zoroastrian  A follower of Zoroaster; one who accepts Zoroastrianism.
Zoroastrianism  The religious system of Zoroaster, the legislator and prophet of the ancient Persians, which was the national faith of Persia; mazdeism. The system presupposes a good spirit (Ormuzd) and an opposing evil spirit (Ahriman). Cf. Fire worship, under Fire, and Parsee.
Zoroastrism  Same as Zoroastrianism.
Zoster  Shingles.
Zostera  A genus of plants of the Naiadaceae, or Pondweed family. Zostera marina is commonly known as sea wrack, and eelgrass.
Zosterops  A genus of birds that comprises the white-eyes. See White-eye.
Zouave  One of an active and hardy body of soldiers in the French service, originally Arabs, but now composed of Frenchmen who wear the Arab dress.
Zouave  Hence, one of a body of soldiers who adopt the dress and drill of the Zouaves, as was done by a number of volunteer regiments in the army of the United States in the Civil War, 1861-65.
Zounds  An exclamation formerly used as an oath, and an expression of anger or wonder.
Zoutch  To stew, as flounders, eels, etc., with just enough or liquid to cover them.
Zubr  The aurochs.
Zuche  A stump of a tree.
Zuchetto  A skullcap covering the tonsure, worn under the berretta. The pope's is white; a cardinal's red; a bishop's purple; a priest's black.
Zufolo  A little flute or flageolet, especially that which is used to teach birds.
Zuisin  The American widgeon.
Zulus  The most important tribe belonging to the Kaffir race. They inhabit a region on the southeast coast of Africa, but formerly occupied a much more extensive country. They are noted for their warlike disposition, courage, and military skill.
Zumbooruk  A small cannon supported by a swiveled rest on the back of a camel, whence it is fired, -- used in the East.
Zumic  Alt. of Zumometer
Zumological  Alt. of Zumometer
Zumology  Alt. of Zumometer
Zumometer  See Zymic, Zymological, etc.
Zu/is  A tribe of Pueblo Indians occupying a village in New Mexico, on the Zu/i River.
Zunyite  A fluosilicate of alumina occurring in tetrahedral crystals at the Zu/i mine in Colorado.
Zwanziger  An Austrian silver coin equivalent to 20 kreutzers, or about 10 cents.
Zygantra  of Zygantrum
Zygantrum  See under Zygosphene.
Zygapophyses  of Zygapophysis
Zygapophysis  One of the articular processes of a vertebra, of which there are usually four, two anterior and two posterior. See under Vertebra.
Zygenid  Any one of numerous species of moths of the family Zygaenidae, most of which are bright colored. The wood nymph and the vine forester are examples. Also used adjectively.
Zygobranchia  A division of marine gastropods in which the gills are developed on both sides of the body and the renal organs are also paired. The abalone (Haliotis) and the keyhole limpet (Fissurella) are examples.
Zygobranchiate  Of or pertaining to the Zygobranchia.
Zygodactyl  Alt. of Zygodactyle
Zygodactyle  Any zygodactylous bird.
Zygodactylae  The zygodactylous birds. In a restricted sense applied to a division of birds which includes the barbets, toucans, honey guides, and other related birds.
Zygodactyli  Same as Scansores.
Zygodactylic  Alt. of Zygodactylous
Zygodactylous  Yoke-footed; having the toes disposed in pairs; -- applied to birds which have two toes before and two behind, as the parrot, cuckoo, woodpecker, etc.
Zygoma  The jugal, malar, or cheek bone.
Zygoma  The zygomatic process of the temporal bone.
Zygoma  The whole zygomatic arch.
Zygomatic  Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the zygoma.
Zygomorphic  Alt. of Zygomorphous
Zygomorphous  Symmetrical bilaterally; -- said of organisms, or parts of organisms, capable of division into two symmetrical halves only in a single plane.
Zyophyte  Any plant of a proposed class or grand division (Zygophytes, Zygophyta, or Zygosporeae), in which reproduction consists in the union of two similar cells. Cf. Oophyte.
Zygosis  Same as Conjugation.
Zygosperm  A spore formed by the union of the contents of two similar cells, either of the same or of distinct individual plants. Zygosperms are found in certain orders of algae and fungi.
Zygosphene  A median process on the front part of the neural arch of the vertebrae of most snakes and some lizards, which fits into a fossa, called the zygantrum, on the back part of the arch in front.
Zygospore  Same as Zygosperm.
Zygospore  A spore formed by the union of several zoospores; -- called also zygozoospore.
Zylonite  Celluloid.
Zymase  A soluble ferment, or enzyme. See Enzyme.
Zyme  A ferment.
Zyme  The morbific principle of a zymotic disease.
Zymic  Pertaining to, or produced by, fermentation; -- formerly, by confusion, used to designate lactic acid.
Zymogen  A mother substance, or antecedent, of an enzyme or chemical ferment; -- applied to such substances as, not being themselves actual ferments, may by internal changes give rise to a ferment.
Zymogene  One of a physiological group of globular bacteria which produces fermentations of diverse nature; -- distinguished from pathogene.
Zymogenic  Pertaining to, or formed by, a zymogene.
Zymogenic  Capable of producing a definite zymogen or ferment.
Zymologic  Alt. of Zymological
Zymological  Of or pertaining to zymology.
Zymologist  One who is skilled in zymology, or in the fermentation of liquors.
Zymology  A treatise on the fermentation of liquors, or the doctrine of fermentation.
Zymome  A glutinous substance, insoluble in alcohol, resembling legumin; -- now called vegetable fibrin, vegetable albumin, or gluten casein.
Zymometer  Alt. of Zymosimeter
Zymosimeter  An instrument for ascertaining the degree of fermentation occasioned by the mixture of different liquids, and the degree of heat which they acquire in fermentation.
Zymophyte  A bacteroid ferment.
Zymose  Invertin.
Zymosis  A fermentation; hence, an analogous process by which an infectious disease is believed to be developed.
Zymosis  A zymotic disease.
Zymotic  Of, pertaining to, or caused by, fermentation.
Zymotic  Designating, or pertaining to, a certain class of diseases. See Zymotic disease, below.
Zythem  See Zythum.
Zythepsary  A brewery.
Zythum  A kind of ancient malt beverage; a liquor made from malt and wheat.
